# Trainer Meeting 3 Feb 2022, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220203T22

**Leadership nominees:**
- Jon Wheeler (he/him0, University of New Mexico
- Mark Crowe (he/him)
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
- Sarah Brown (she/her) University of Rhode Island

**Others attending:**
- Zac Painter, Stanford University
- Liz Stokes (she/they), ARDC Sydney
- Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
- Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries, Portland OR USA
- Kate Hertweck (perceived pronouns), Seattle WA
- Evgenij Belikov (he/him), EPCC, University of Edinburgh

**Apologies:**


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

## Agenda:
### Review nominees submissions: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/Nominees2022.md
### Nominee Introductions
### Q&A
- Liz: what is it about the other candidates -- is there anything others have said about the "one thing you'd like to work on" that you find interesting and worth pursuing?
- Sarah B: Pao points at working on policy related to sponsorship. Now that someone has pointed out that that is lacking that highlights a related point -- we have worked as transparently as possible putting things out, but that doesn't mean they are all noticed. That raises the question of how we communicate the things that we are currently working on to make them visible at least to people who are invested in those idea.
- Mark Crowe: Jon mentions sustainability and longevity of the Trainer program. It's interesting that these comments come from new people and these aren't things we really have discussed over the past year. Whether this is something Leadership would really drive is open, but how you keep a sustainable community when we all have demands and different relationships to your own job while also this group is absolutely essential to The Carpentries, so how we continue to grow
- Jon: similar. It's a volunteer organization. Sustaining the larger organization and sustaining our own participation and local communities. Leadership style and the importance of empathy and listening. Becoming a better listener, seeing myself in other people's position, and how can these questions about sustainability and growth inform my work better and make me a better professional and educator.
- Jeff: Jon mentions listening, highlights what Mark discussed in improving communication. We may never finish that but have an opportunity to explore. We have leadership, core team, and the community. Karen is a conduit for the core team, we have better opportunities to communicate with the Trainers community. Recently good feeedback about where and when they want to be involved in decisionmaking and codifying those communications is a good opportunity to work on.
- Mark L: As we have grown, the EC /board of directors type thing needs to grow as well. Seem to be less doers and innovation and thoughts are left to groups like this one. They set direction but not products and services. How do you see your role growing, with communications to the executive council being fragmented and unclear, defined roles seem to be lacking. How do you see improving communications and having both groups grow to be more in line with what they are trying to do?
- Jeff: Clarify? Feel like our communication was pretty good. Karen and Kelly came to all the leadership meetings. EC has a million things to work on, maybe they didn't get to ours, but communication was pretty decent. Sarah and Amanda created a good system in GitHub for proposals, assigning things, Karen has been part of that process. Are there particular things we fell down on?
- Mark: You're talking about Carpentries staff, then there's the EC. Maybe there's a lack of transparency or missed a blog post but becoming more confused as to the role of the EC and how it impacts us. Clarification, policy-driven, being champions for what we do.
- Sarah B: This is a tough issue. The EC itself is going through growing pains on how to be an actual governing borad. we can't fix that. We have given them the reports we need - we have another to prepare. We have sent them many emails to the executive council and the program committee. They ahve put us on hold because they have other higher priorities. Those things are going to scaffold down and give us answers. We have been in communication, but it has been mostly in email and we haven't necessarily shared that with the community as broadly as we should have. The EC is working very hard to become a governing group. They are getting there but they haven't had anything to give us yet.
- Mark L: transparency would be good for us to know that there are communications. My view is that it has been disjointed and this communication didn't appear to be ongoing. But moving forward how do you hope to help them grow?
- Mark C: what we've been trying to do is ask forgiveness not permission. Going ahead and doing things anyway. We hopefully are in a better position to tell them what the Trainer community wants than they are. That's been the approach, not waiting for permission to do things. I want to build up how we get communication back from the Trainer community. These meetings are one way, but we don't always get as much information going from the Trainers to Leadership vs the other way around. How do we get that so we can take it to the EC and tell them what the Trainers are saying? Can we develop other means of getting input so we can go to the EC with an informed position?
- Jon: this is where my newness is a challenge, I don't have a lot to say. We have a lot of formal assessments for people about to take a workshop and after. We have these feedback events in Trainer meetings and community discussions when you can discuss anecdotally how things went. Thining about these questions, is it useful to have more formal assessment of Instructors or Trainers experience to gather structure information to create a 2-way conversation around policy and execution
- Jeff: what's the biggest challenge to serving on the Leadership group? (or opportunity) Anticipated or dealt with?
- Jeff answers. Because it's volunteer, balancing the time to give it the right attention that it needs. There have been some important policies that memvers have drafted, and it's great that they have been able to carve out the brain space to do that, but it is a challenge of this role.
- Mark Crowe: remarkably unchallenging. We've been lucky, but we've ended up with 5 people who wanted to help and wanted to help each other. Everyone wants to get to a resoultion and a good outcome. We do try to talk about async communication and this usually means 1 hour before the meeting desperatlye catching up. GitHub continues to be a learning curve. But on the whole one of the more rewardig and satisfying groups over the past few years.
- Jon: continuity. Because i's volunteer, timing of events and commitments and turnover of groups and administration. Having enough information to follow-up and make action items meaningful and accomplish things that need to be accomplished are always important. You want to have a lasting impact, so how do you build that continuity as volunteers.
- SarahB Time is always the hardest in everything. That being said, because there is Core Team we don't have to put in all the work, just have to come up with ideas and there are people to implement. Challenging for me to figure out the balance of how to act and make decisions because we were elected to do so while creating space for this to be a community-driven thing. If you look in the old Trainer notes, every single Trainer voted on changing checkout. Now Trainers leadership has the power to do that, what is the right balance for notification and input. It's godo that that's the hardest thing because communication is necessarily hard but doing what we do is pretty easy. We finish our agenda most meetings, people are prepared, we have productive conversations, but it hasn't been that difficult.

## Certification Renewal
- proposal: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/143
- current trainer agreement: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#trainer-agreement
- note that membership terms will not be affected by this change
- How does this renewal jive with membership renewals where we are taking advantage of the discounted fee for Trainer participation? We are right in the middle of renewals. There is more work for the foundation clause than there is for hte community. My undestanding is that Trainer participation can be negotiated case by case in membership. Should we recognize that those agreements are in existence and also suffice?
- Liz: as approved by trainers leadership clause. Is that in the certification renewal or not? Is that in or out?
- Sarah B: activities are self-reported, and you will self-report, but you don't have to ask for special treatment. Everyone tells us what they've done, and then it gets checked off. But we wanted to remove the burden of asking for special treatment. Everyone will sefl-report and we will then do the automatic renewal.
- Mark L: Like this because there may be personal reasons. Having an avenue to have a realistic expectation when life happens to not have to hamper or degrade your status. little opportunity for privacy goes toward empathy.
- Approval by Leadership was in separate documentat, added here for clarity.
- Liz: we wouldn't be here if it weren't for the discussions facilitated by Leadership, so gratitude for how you have led us through. Incumbents expresed regret at not having achieved as much, but be kind to your inner overachievers. :)





# Trainer meeting, 3 Feb 2022  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220203T14

**Leadership nominees:**
- Sarah Brown (she/her), University of Rhode Island
- Pao Corrales (she/her), UBA & MetaDocencia



**Others attending:**
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him/his), Virginia Tech
- Toby Hodges (he/him/his), The Carpentries
- Grace Fishbein (she/her/hers), ACENET, Canada
- Ben Chiewphasa (he/him/his), University of Notre Dame
- Lieke de Boer (she/her), eScience Center, Netherlands
- Danielle Sieh (she/her/hers), The Carpentries
- Yanina Bellini Saibene (she/her), MetaDocencia-INTA, Argentina (Santa Rosa, La Pampa) 😈
- 💥 Hao Ye (he/him), University of Florida
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON
- Angela Li (she/hers), Princeton, NJ 🎉
- Kari L. Jordan (she/her), The Carpentries
- Maneesha Sane (any pronoun), The Carpentries
- Karen Word (she/her), The Carpentries🤩
- David Perez-Suarz (he/him), UCL, London





**Apologies:**
- Aleksandra Nenadic, UK Software Sustainabiloty Institute (SSI) - a clash with our Fellows Inaugural Day
- Angelique Trusler, The Carpentries - I have a conflict due to time change, the hour will be free once clocks change again :(
- Margareth Gfrerer

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

## Agenda:
## Review nominees submissions: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/Nominees2022.md
## Nominee Introductions
- Sarah Brown: We have a structure that allows us to operate transparently. Everything is in the repository if you want to see what we've done. Facilitating core team projects, being responsive and asking questions about their work. Being a Trainer is a favorite form of service, and this group is a rewarding experienc
- Pao: Reason is to help the Leadership to continue this work. They are doing a good job in building the Trainers community to give us the opportunity to keep working as Trainers. In my case I hope to bring a different perspective, being a part of Latin America and having been a Trainer for a few years, but with a different experience. I don't teach in English, only in Spanish, for a very diferent group of people. I hope to bring some different perspectice on issues we have.
## Q&A
- Kari: Could you speak a little bit to the curriculum development aspects of Leadership vs Community? What do you see as the future of Leadership as it relates to the curriculum vs community building?
- Sarah B: From a literal perspective, maintenance and curriculum don't respond solely to the Trainers Leadership. This is a broader responsibility that is shared with the whole community. We do the maintenance but we also invite others to participate. Full response is that Leadership doesn't have the ability to respond to every single thing the community wants to do. It's supposed to be a community-driven organization. To the best of our ability we are to be representative. This first group there were three in the USA, one Australia, one New Zealand. It would be better to have more representation. Hope to get Pao! Hope to create more ways to hear from people that don't necessarily have time to commit. We have tried to do more asynchronous things, but we have also heard that people like to do things in meetings more. Going forward, I want to think about where curriculum and community building overlap, and ways we can use the community through small or large meetings or other support so we can be that voice going forward with training.
- Pao: One of the things that is really important is that I am very conscious about representing a large group of people. Of course we will work so others don't have to deal with every small detail, but at the same time it is important to look for those ideas, opinions, and experiences from some who cannot join meetings or may be farther from the core group of Trainers we see at meetings, and ask them to participate to know what they are experiencing when they teach, what their experience has been with the latest changes and what can be better in the future.
- Maneesha: My responsibilities on the Core Team are about logitstics and delivery of training. This means that I need to know, and one of the challenges I have, is knowing how many Trainers in what time zones will be available at different times. This might not be specifically what you are considering, but the trainer expectations are under your purview. As we manage logistics and communicate expectations, what do you see as your role here.
- Sarah B: this is something we have struggled with. New Certification Renewal process plan is that we are formally lowering the expectation. Technically. We did that by looking at the data. I can offer that the procedure will be as inclusive as we can, how we come to these decisions. We agreed with what the community wanted. A lot of people who wanted more flexibility do multiple trainings and are ok continuing with that, just don't wnat to burden other people. Can we try to ask the broader community to provide more information, to ask not for a commitment far in advance, but to project better when they expect to be available. Another way to pay attention to that particular need is in the application process. We can set up the rubrics and make expectations clear for people who plan to apply that we need coverage and participation, it's not an award, it's a commitment to teaching. We will prioritize people in certain communities and languages based on need. Maybe we don't need more Trainers in the USA but to support growth elsewhere. Focusing on who we recruit is where we should be thinking.
- Pao: This topic is new for me. I always thought about my availabiity for the next quarter or year from my personal point of view and also taking into account that I prefer to help to grow the community in Latin America. I was thinking that I don't know exactly how many Trainers we need for each region and time zone. What is the necessity for that for the next year, for example? In my case if I see that you need more people in this area in the next 3 months, I may be able to make an effort, if it is necessary. Maybe having more information available for Trainers is a good idea to make compromises or make a decision not only on personal preference.
- Yanina: Question about certification renewal. If I understand, it sounded like agreement will be different between regions?
- Sarah B: No, I was talking about applications, and who we accept. If we want to increase our Trainers in Latin America, we should be more explicit about that, in how we prioritize.
- Yanina: With the Agreement, we say 'yes' to different things. If there will be differences, we need to know how to ask for exceptions. People from regions like mine will not ask for exceptions. That's why I think it's important to have leadership to represent that point of view.
- Sher: one goal of the Workshop Administration Team is to build a stronger community within Instructors. If any of you are Instructors, you may be aware that there isn't the same kind of community for them as Trainers. Do you have thoughts about the Trainers role in helping to build Instructors? Are there any other ways we could fill that gap with our Instructors?
- Sarah B: Have thought about how to collaborate more closely with the Instructor Development Committee (IDC). That group has been in flux this year. Excited that there will be the opportunity for Leadership to coordinate with them and think about how we can collaborate. Have thought personaly about how Bonus Modules interact with that group, how Trainers can think about developing new Bonus Modules based on interest and demand. Have thought less about local communities because I am not involved in one. Keen to hear people who have done more local development and what they do locally to have their local pipeline, and how we can translate some of those ideas up into not only what Trainers do but Trainers are the first chance to set expectations. We can adjust their expectations. They may come in thinking they will teach only locally but we can let them know they can teach globally. Using these metings to share best practices and passing ideas along. Our role would be mostly liasing, connecting the dots, but that's a really exciting opportunity.
- Pao: It is interesting to hear about your experience Sarah. I am happy to see people returning from past nominations because it is helpful to learn from others. I can give a more local perspective because in Latin America besides doing IT we also support the trainees to go through the certification process. I think that even now we don't have many workshops going around, the new Instructors see us as a reference in The Carpentries and I have been receiving questions about where to do this, how to find that. We can build this relationship and be the person that connects the dots for the Instructors and help them to go through The Carpentries global community, and help them start teaching and participating in othe ways.
## Certification Renewal
- proposal: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/143
- current trainer agreement: https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.html#trainer-agreement
- "Forward looking" Trainer Agreement (what do you plan to do?) v. "Backward looking" Proposal (what have you done in the past year)
- note that membership terms will not be affected by this change
- Jake: I like the certification broadly, but there is no language about how equivalency is defined. Who makes that decision?
- Sarah: this is a trap in our documentation circles. It says in our documentation that we interpret the Trainer Agreement. We review those things, will work with Core Team.
- Karen: We can add this in.
- David: where do we see what we have done in the past?
- Maneesha: If you actually taught Instructor Training, when you go into your AMY profile you should see that. WE are not yet recording demos in AMY. That may be something to do in the future but right now we track those separately, between when you sign up in Calendly and when you submit the form afterwards to tell us who came. The other thing is that we send an email once a year in October that summarizes all Trainings and workshops and other fun facts about # trainees and % badging etc. If you didn't get that last year it should have come in October 2021, can look up exact date. If you do have questions about things you think you'd shoud be seeing but don't, reach out to Karen or Maneesha.
- Sarah B: October 18th was when my email came. "The Carpentries Trainer Impact Report: 01 October 2020 to 30 September 2021"
- Other kinds of activities to be approved by the Leadership team, I would like to have more details about the process. I do one Training, I can do other things on the automatic renewal, but I'd like examples. Does the EC count? People on Leadership etc.
- Sarah: it says "activities that are self-reported" -- there will be a process where we ask people and there will be examples in the form to help prompt people to remember what they have done. Just being cautious with this document to minimize the need for changes
- Yani: assume that most renewal will be automatic and that you won't have to review a lot of cases.
