## Trainer meeting, 7 July 2022  UTC 14:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220707T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220707T14)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



*     Nathaniel Porter (he/him)

**Others attending**



*  Anelda van der Walt
*  Kari L. Jordan
* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
* Kelly Barnes (she, her)
* Sher! (She/her)
* Jannetta Steyn (she/her)
* Ben Chiewphasa (he/him)
* Christian Knüpfer (he/him)
* Grace Fishbein (she/her)
* Maneesha Sane (any pronoun is fine)
* Karen Word (she/her)
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him)
* Trisha Adamus (she/her)
* Luis J. Villanueva (he/him)
* Mark Laufersweiler (he/him)
* Philipp Schäfer (he/him)
* Mike Trizna (he/him)
* Aleks Nenadic (the last portion of the meeting)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker:


### **Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post workshop discussion
* Nathanial: taught IT last week with Ariel D and Karl B
* Fantastic to have three trainers: don't always have to be on, voice didn't get tired, much easier to manage+1
* We had a range of experiences, so it really helped the novice trainer get experience
* Demoed creating a website instead of having the people poke around
* Things that were noted: inconsistency about positive/negative feedback (some places still say negative when they should be constructive)
* There are some places that assume you are doing coding and programming. LC folks don't feel like the examples apply to them. This is an area of improvement to bring more people in.
* Kelly: have you had a chance to add any GH issues?
* Nathanial: not yet, but I will try to do that
* Kelly: has anyone else had the opportunity to work with two other trainers?
* Phillip: Janetta and Aleks. It was good in particular because of schedules where people had to get off early.
* Mike: It's so much better; not easy to coordinate three trainers, but as a secondary trainer who is not lead, you feel like you have the ability to step away if you need to.
* Grace: It was nice to have an experienced trainer come in to talk on the history of the carpentries and address questions
* Chrisitan: The burden to prepare the training was much less because we only had to cover 1/3; great for new trainers
* Mark: now that we've done 4 day format; for the people who had three trainers, was this two days or four days?
* Grace: 2 day
* Nathanial: 2 day
* Christian: 2 day
* Phillip: 2 day
* Anelda: 2 day
* Kelly: this is good feedback to hear. We are still working on trying to cooordinate scheduling...[zhian missed this]
* Andrea: we had four "trainers"; three active and one instructor observer who wanted to see what it was like behind the scenes and it worked out very well!
* Phillip: we offered for people to create the website after the session and some people did show up
* Andrea: that reminds me that we did not do the website building at all. When people get to that point, we offer help in the future.
* Janetta: The previous workshop with Aleks, we did the same thing: inviting people to sessions afterwords. There was only one person and wondering: is it okay to open it up to other people (e.g. sending a message on slack to announce)
* Karen: this is a wonderful idea and I think we should formalise this. It's a shame that we can't just jump on the community discussion calendar.
* Mark: at some point, it might be a good bonus module to have because of the fact that GitHub pages is a time drain. The online process is slow and the process for installing the infrastructure is nightmarish. Moreover: it's not really a requirement and more of a skill, which is why the bonus module makes sense. Regarding the extra sessions: this could be advertised to regional channels and built up that way.
* Grace: at UT, they had grant money to become a carpentries member and they created a bunch of instructors and websites. They had folks who were familiar with git and created drop-in sessions for git and they were quite popular.
* Announcements
* Cancellation of August 4 meeting (CarpentryCon) :(
* Certification renewal forms due 11 July
* Everyone should have received an email (from the carpentries; not, like generally) regarding this.
* If you haven't received this; don't hesitate to get in touch
* CarpentryCon registration is open!
* [https://2022.carpentrycon.org](https://2022.carpentrycon.org/)
* [https://www.eventbrite.com/e/carpentrycon-2022-tickets-360012566277](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/carpentrycon-2022-tickets-360012566277)
* Trainer Meeting Scheduling Process!
* View upcoming topics/proposals:
* by status [https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/1)
* by date: [https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2)
* by needs: [https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/4](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/4)
* instructions and important links in "README" of Project Details behind icon link top right
* Comment on an issue to volunteer to host a discussions
* propose a topic, with the form titled, "Template for Trainer Meeting Topics" to [create a new issue]([https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/new/choose](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/new/choose)) on the trainer's repo.
* Trainer Leadership Committee will assign topics to dates at meetings (~2nd or 3rd Wed of month) or asynchronously as needed
* Sarah: Are the host responsibilities documented somewhere?  Are we hosting the whole meeting or only the discussion part?
* Karen: only the discussion part; I will be sure to put documenation in there
*
* Help wanted with Centrally Organised Workshops. Please help to promote the benefits of teaching workshops with The Carpentries both in your training events and in your home communities where you can.
* Instructor-facing content about teaching Centrally Organised workshops is here: [https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/05/what-is-a-centrally-organised-workshop/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/05/what-is-a-centrally-organised-workshop/)
* Signup sheet for workshops is here: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1YhTAzEalDqKUowgej7aRa7E1K0XcB6ZezoVUt6VN2qY/edit](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1YhTAzEalDqKUowgej7aRa7E1K0XcB6ZezoVUt6VN2qY/edit)
* Topic of the month
* As we grow, we have increased demonad for centrally organized workshops. And online workshops don't have the perk of travel. So sometimes it is challenging to find instructors.
* Our materials point to organisers, but we are looking to developing landing fields for instructors who want to teach. At the moment the blog post linked above addresses that
* Please look through the blog post and if you have any questions about how these are organised or why we do this or why anyone would want to do this, we can discuss.
* Sarah: Sorry if this is off topic: Are other local groups seeing lower numbers of volunteers for organizing self-organized workshops as well?  We've had a reduction in instructors volunteering to teach local workshops.  Not so much that it is a large concern but we have canceled workshops we were planning due to low numbers of instructor volunteers.  I've also been volunteering for centrally organized less because of my trainer responsibilities and because I'm "filling in" more due to lower numbers of local instructor volunteers.
* Mike: yes
* Mark: big issue
* People who were more reliable volunteers have been dialing back a bit for various reasons and people don't like teaching online. We started to do in-person, but then had to switch back to virtual due to COVID. We've been growing recently, but we may have hit a limit. We had to cancel a SWC workshop because there was only one volunteer and it's been hard to find them.
* Mark: part of what it is is that the pandemic live coding is not the same as in-person live coding. The workshops were a good recuriting tool for people to become instructors that was lost in the online space. This is likely the point of failure because we are losing these potential volunteers at the beginning. To the broader question about why to do this: a resume builder. A lot of instructors will ask "what's in it for me" beyond the community. This would be a good opportunity for people to have a certified place they can say "yes, I have actually taught X number of workshops" so that they can include this on their resumes. This would be a great feature for AMY
* Karen: Remdinds me: we need a new director of technology: [https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/07/director-of-technology/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/07/director-of-technology/)
* Mike: The decline can be attributed to the pandemic, but it's a symptom of growth sometimes. This was a pattern that we were seeing before the pandemic. Acknowledging that yes, it can be scary, but you will be surrounded by people who have done this before. Ripping off the adhesive medical strip is really the key step to get new instructors.
* Sher: Everything everyone has mentioned here has been recognised as barriers here. Other keys are the gaps between checkout and the first workshop. All in all, this lets us know that we are moving in the right direction. Please continue to promote and if you see anything that needs addressing, do not heistate to hit up Sher!
* Janetta: Is it possible to help out on a workshop as a checkout procedure?
* Karen: we are going to be revisiting checkout process soon and this is a good idea!



## Trainer Meeting 7 July 2022 UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220707T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220707T22)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* Jake & Sarah (post)
* Sarah & Samniqueka (pre)
* Ariel (post)

**Others attending**



* Murray Cadzow (will be about 20min late)
* Zac Painter
* Zhian Kamvar (he/him)
* Sarah Brown
* Karen Word (she/her)
* Ariel Deardorff (she/her)
* Jeff Oliver (he/him)
* Sara King (she/her)
* Tim Dennis (he/him)
* Annajiat Alim Rasel

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker:


### **Agenda**:



* Introductions
* Pre and post workshop discussion
* Sarah: Jake & I taught a few weeks ago also with Holly Bik
* Biggest takeaway: 19 people is too many
* Cap officially 24, but this felt the most impersonal
* In the written document it was even difficult
* Any beyond 15 is difficult
* There are still points in the curriculum that are awkward, but they are better!
* One thing that I would like advice on: how to handle minor disruptions in Zoom
* E.g. if someone is being disengaged/adversarial in person; you can take them aside
* CoC is great and you should just report things and they will help out.
* What do you do in real time for disruptions where you don't want to demotivate the trainee, but also want to address that their behavior is not quite what you expected?
* Q: what are some examples?
* A: We had reports from breakout rooms that someone was being adversarial
* Giving feedback and trainee cut people off
* Karen: I don't know what I would do, but I have an idea! I think in your case, it was particularly challenging because you got the intel at the end, so that's hard to have any response whatsoever. I think that probably the best course of action is to DM on zoom that person and ask them to stay after at a break or at the end of the day for just a few minutes (no explanation) and then bring up the feedback and ask them to comment on that. If they don't respond in the zoom chat, I would also send an email (it couldn't hurt to send both so that we have a paper trail).
* Jake: summary---have a chat and then summarize in email
* Karen: it is an uncomfortable thing to do!
* Sarah: when he was arguing with me in the breakout room, it was as the breakout room was closing
* Jake: this is not the first time in a training where we have gotten feedback that there is someone who was difficult to be in a breakout room with, but not identifying that person. Also don't want to say "if you are complaining about someone, name them"
* Jeff: Maybe take a cue from JR high school teachers and remind people about our CoC and expectations. It's not perfect, but it's the first step
* Sarah: it would affirm it for the person who experienced that
* Ariel: maybe mix up breakout rooms after that
* Sarah (King): It's interesting to see how all of this escalates and knowing that when you see that first diversion, that's the time to act.
* Ariel: especially as the day goes on and people get tired, bad behavior can escalate.
* Jake: ToM is related to this, so we will get back to this
* Sarah: teaching IDEA episode is awkward. Thinking about how to phrase these things... The next workshop is teaching to BIPOC researchers and saying "these things exist" is not going to cut it.
* The way to revise the episode is probably to tie in how the carpentries operates
* Zach: is this like the carpentries is about accessibility and inclusion in research computing?
* The Carpentries is trying to lower the entry barriers in a way that's accessible. Is the direction you are trying to go using that (zhian missed here, srry)
* Sarah: the carpentries provides the framework, not what we do in individual workshops, so I was thinking about emphasizing that aspect of it: these are all the things that you can rely on in the carpentries. This should address a lot of cognitive load problems because it reinforces concepts that we have addressed.
* Sarah: there is evidence that scaffolding has a strong effect for undersupported learners.
* Ariel: Echoing what Jeff was saying; calls for concrete examples in workshops are definitely salient. Leaning in the activities of generating ideas, but this could be expanded.
* Karen: I'm remembering that we had a sort of matching worksheet at one point where we had different categories of information with teaching practices and then made it a concept map. I'm wondering if the UDL activity could use this kind of structure and it might make a big difference.
* Ariel: having examples of answers would help
* Karen: Maybe give examples and have them identify why it meets the criteria
* Ariel: taught last week/three weeks ago; taught with Nathanial and Karl.
* Great to have three people because I didn't lose my voice and the pacing was good
* Not so much a discussion question: I think we sent the wrong link for the post-workshop survey (accidentally sent pre-workshop survey). Should we have them do the survey again?
* Karen: no. we should try to find it and do what we can (foists more work on François) unless they filled out the pre-survey twice
* Jake: I find the pre/post workshop survey links hard to find on the website. Even when I'm looking for them, they are not prominent. (NOTE FOR ZHIAN THIS IS THE TRAINING TEMPLATE, NOT THE NORMAL TEMPLATE [https://github.com/carpentries/training-template](https://github.com/carpentries/training-template)) - but also the change would be good to have in the normal template :) (Jake) ᕕ( ᐛ )ᕗ(zhian)
* Announcements
* Cancellation of August 4 meeting (CarpentryCon)
* Certification renewal forms due 11 July
* You should have received some sort of an email about this. GET THIS IN BY MONDAY JULY 11! Do not hesitate to send this with whatever. It's a way for us to get information of what's going on out there beyond what we are tracking. Also, talk with Karen! She likes talking with people!
* CarpentryCon registration is open!
* [https://2022.carpentrycon.org](https://2022.carpentrycon.org/)
* [https://www.eventbrite.com/e/carpentrycon-2022-tickets-360012566277](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/carpentrycon-2022-tickets-360012566277)
* Trainer Meeting Scheduling Process!
* Process is a misnomer: aspirations and a form!
* View upcoming topics/proposals:
* by status [https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/1)
* by date: [https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/2)
* by needs: [https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/5](https://github.com/orgs/carpentries/projects/4/views/5)
* instructions and important links in "README" of Project Details behind icon lin top right
* Comment on an issue to volunteer to host a discussions
* propose a topic, with the form titled, "Template for Trainer Meeting Topics" to [create a new issue]([https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/new/choose](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/new/choose)) on the trainer's repo.
* Trainer Leadership Committee will assign topics to dates at meetings (~2nd or 3rd Wed of month) or asynchronously as needed
* Help wanted with Centrally Organised Workshops. Please help to promote the benefits of teaching workshops with The Carpentries both in your training events and in your home communities where you can.
* Instructor-facing content about teaching Centrally Organised workshops is here: [https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/05/what-is-a-centrally-organised-workshop/](https://carpentries.org/blog/2022/05/what-is-a-centrally-organised-workshop/)
* Signup sheet for workshops is here: [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1YhTAzEalDqKUowgej7aRa7E1K0XcB6ZezoVUt6VN2qY/edit](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1YhTAzEalDqKUowgej7aRa7E1K0XcB6ZezoVUt6VN2qY/edit)
* Topic of the month
* I was hoping we could have a discussion about what we can do as trainers when there is a trainee in a workshop whose level of engagement or behaviour in a training makes us worried that they may not be ready to teach Carpentries workshops, even if they've passed all the on-paper requirements.
* Examples: (see above) or someone not particularly reading the room, not letting other people talk, blaming others.
* This kind of situation might not come up in a technical demo. We are not always looking for people who are domain experts, but we are also not looking for folks who are experienced in pedagogy and expect people to learn and grow.
* Karen: we are going to revisit the goals of completing checkout. What you've identified here is a criterion that is not in our checkout process (we don't have a catch for terrible listeners). This is one of those things that takes time to identify and evaluate the problem.
* Zach: When I have to fill out the teaching demo sheet; there is a space that does mention "do you think that everyone _got it_ in the training?" The person who was in your workshop signed up for the teaching demo that I ended up doing. The teaching demo was clearly labelled for AUS/NZ time and the participant emailed last minute and cancelled because they were in Italy.
* Jake: This alone would be understandable, but the plurality of evidence is concerning. Should we have a formal way of recommending folks for mentoring?
* Ariel: this gets back to checkout; They are not ready to go at the end of instructor training and they still have to go through all of the steps. We don't have a way to aggregate the path through checkout.
* Sarah: we don't do much summative assessment, but I will notice if a trainee does not consistently answer the prompt or if the trainee is in and out a lot. I'm not sure where we can put that or even if we want to do that.
* Jake: If there was a way for the trainers to voice concerns about the trainees, this might be a way to provide a through thread so that when that happens.
* Jeff: To argue against myself, how do we walk the line of making Instructor Training as accommodating as possible, but keeping some quality assurance process in certifying instructors.
* Karen: Hearing a couple of different ideas:
    1. making the training step more selective (we have attendance as the criteria at the moment)
    2. we could add trainer discretion (does anyone not pass and what should the followup be?)
    3. maybe we elaborate on the checkout process itself and have someone teach/help out before certification
* Annajiat: what about a self-assessment checklist to make people aware of these issues that people might run into?
* Jake: This is a great idea because it prompts them to think about it. We should also have something else.
* Sarah: The opportunity for trainers to comment on trainees has the potential for implicit bias. The thing that goes agains this: the perrson in question was on a general ticket and not part of a member site, which means that they will not have a community to fall on.
* Karen: we are at time!
