# Trainer Meeting 3 March 2022, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220303T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona (post)
- Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico
- Mark Laufersweiler *he/him), UNiversity of Oklaoma (Tim Davis)

**Others attending**
- Michael Culshaw-Maurer (he/him), University of Arizona / Carpentries Core Team
- Sara King (she/her), AARNet, Adelaide
- Liz Stokes (she/they), ARDC, Sydney


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Liz

## Agenda:
## Introductions
Mark Laufersweiler, Norman, Ok. 4 for CLI and 3 for the web

## Pre and post workshop discussion
(notes below)
## Announcements
- New Leadership in process of onboarding!
  - Jeff Oliver
  - Sarah Brown
  - Bonny Adane Bayissa
  - Paola Corrales
  - Mark Crowe
- Huge thanks to outgoing members Arin Basu and Amanda Charbonneau, and also to Jon Wheeler for  stepping up to enrich our election process
- Trainers are invited to community interviews with candidates for Accessibility Coordinator position. Poll here: http://whenisgood.net/ntkzw29
- Please help spread the word about Director of Fundraising position, open through 20 March!
- Posting: https://carpentries.org/director-of-fundraising/
- Tweet: https://twitter.com/thecarpentries/status/1498403855612137476
- Core Team will be on annual retreat next week and will be slow to respond.
- Watch out for time changes!
- Topic of the month: curriculum maintenance
- Pull Request: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126

## Pre post workshops
- Jeff - 2 day online session. - folks engaged, went well, as the days go on there are more interactive feedback which follows the curve of the curriculum design. 3 weeks ago - lots has happened since then. Always exciting also to teach from the same timezone.
- Jon - appreciate teaching with Jeff - never got so much feedback as in this particular session. People were saying more opportunities for day 2 but towards the end of day 2 there was so much interaction there was a bit of fatigue so got some feedback in the opposite direction. for myself would like to be more smoother, felt it was a bit bumpy, but pretty happy with how it went.
- Karne - what particularly was about the bumpiness?
- Jon - need more practice at intros? May be over prepared, or maybe is new to me - hard to keep it organised in my head? What's the best way to lead into concepts a, b and c?
- Mark - Pre-workshop starts late Monday morning - first time west coast timeslot, I get more of my morning, teaching with Tim Dennis we do the ping pong - pick our favourites. Still deviation from curriculum on my topic mathematics, Had success with that - often fosters a lot of discussion the following morning, but conscious of the affect on time mgmt, but excited about this prospect to teach with Tim!
- Liz - a lot of us really wish we could see how other people in the community teach.
- Mark - no problem being the 'senior', and would have loved to teach with Greg Wilson - so this is the first chance I've had to teeach with Tim, so really looking forward to that.
- Karen - oftern a regional split with who you actually get to teach with.
- Mark - European model has people dropping in your teaching all the time. Where as the Americans start to worry if people suddenly drop in to observe.  Maybe we should encourage that a little more?
- Karen - We do this for trainees, but not necessarily for active trainers. Could be a good option to throw out there.
- Sara - Is this online?
- Mark - Yes, might have one group of people locally, but open natures of instructor training requires online
- Karen - Haven't had any in person events since the pandemic. Possibly in Africa? Definitely not organising these ourselves - still waiting from guidance from fiscal sponsor on where they're at with that.
- Sara - Half days or full days?
- Karen - 2 x full days or 4 half days.
- Slides vs not slides: how have folks been dealing with that?
- Mark - use with software carpentry but with instructor training I use a google doc, and put figures and content in there. and at the end of the episode use slides for book ending - returning to objectives etc. Works great when you're in person having the start and stop on slides.
- Jon - No, I like to refer to other peoples' slides, but for me familiarising myself with the content and developing my own mental model I come away with a better understand if i don't try to make slides.
- Jeff - I'll get the URL for the image and folks can click on that - the novice, intermedieate, expert
- Karen - did a short term IT version at a hybrid meeting with our Equity council folks from Black community and folks helping us. Sher! was teaching Building skills with practice - shehad beautiful slides! Then I stepped in without slides - often screenshare the etherpad template - a little more like live coding. Helps me stay on topic incidentally!

## Announcements

- Welcome to our new trainer leadership team! Huge thanks to everyone contributing to the process - candidates who ran, so wonderful to have so many involved in that process.
- We have 2 jobs we're trying to hire with for the communty.  Would like trainers to help us select an Accessibility  Officer  - line 55 in the etherpad.
- Also director or deputy director for fundraising! These are a unique skillset and if you are connected with people who have these skills we would love to hear about them!
- Next week Core Team wiill be on retreat. Last year was fully remote, this year we're doing 3 nodes of in-person. But will be mostly unavailable next week. Please use the primary channel on slack to get in contact.
- Time changes next week in many parts of the US - our times are anchored in UTC. In some cases may be necessary to be suspicious of your calendar if it hasn't changed.

## Topic of the month: curriculum maintenance
- Pull Request: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126
- Sarah has been leading this in in curriculum but also with the perspective of maintainers.
- Micahel - Curious what is the plan for moving to the new infrastructure - eg workbench.
- Karen - Very excited to see this new template roll out - sort of checked in with Sian on this - may do the thing is to test it out in data lessons  - it's nice to have a sandbox to play around with, and avoid messing up the live version.
- Michael - i've been working with it and it's nice.
- Mark - when we do major revisions and minor - usually have an arbitrary timeline - can we be a bit more structured and maybe more standard? Issue was fixing minor revisions at the same time as major revisions? Has anyone thought about reasonable timelines for maintenance. The roles are being well defined, but in terms of timelines - is it time for major revison in terms of this?
- Karen - Very good question. I hope to be doing more routinely. I think we kind of got into putting a lot of things off. I was reluctant to make lots of changes and waited until major revisions could deal with some of those things. If we're going to change the content for concept mapping - maybe we can hold a hackathon and pick the best one from a bunch of options- and do more focussed work going along. We may need more structure around major revisions? Unsure how often that's going to be.
- Mark - sprint style? Eg: Here's the 2 or 3 we've come together on and here's the 8 I've had one the backburner that need addressing?  Maybe then disruptions can be lessened by scooping them up when it's time run a sprint on a section of the curriculum. Looking to make Coodinator's job easier as well as the trainer community.
- Karen - funding is a thing - I hope to still be here! Sustainability concerns also relevant here. Although previously reluctant to change what people were doing while they were doing it I realise doing everything at once is similarly overwhelming. But with this kind of policy established we can progress with working on a plan.
- Liz: clarification is good!
- Karen - ok - keep thinking about this  - hope to be scheduling more curriculum hackathons. -may be using more of our second meetings this year.

# Trainer meeting, 3 March 2022  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220303T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Karen Word


**Others attending**
 - Kari L. Jordan
 - Jake Szamosi
- Sarah Brown
- Grace Fishbein (she/her)
- Toby Hodges (he/him), The Carpentries
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
- Pao Corrales (she/her)
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him)
- Danielle Sieh (she/her)
- Angela Li (she/her)
- Intekhab Md Intekhabul Hafiz (he/him)
- David Pérez-Suárez (he/him)
- Annajiat Alim Rasel (he/him)
- Jannetta Steyn (she/her)
- Mateusz Kuzak (he, him, his)
- Aleks Nenadic (she/her)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

## Agenda:
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Karen presented to Carpentries Equity Council
- Universal design literacy was highlighted
- Equity Council feedback included:
- Suggestions for more use of narrative to draw examples
- Examples of biases to overcome and specific culturally responsive issues that may arise while teaching
- Discussion of axes along which learners may vary, e.g. urban rural in addition to ethic/racial/other ways people are more familiar with variation
- More relevant datasets
- More visual illustrations that depict diverse cultures
- Basic introductory text in curricula that is fully free of jargon

## Announcements
- New Leadership in process of onboarding!
- Jeff Oliver
- Sarah Brown
- Bonny Adane Bayissa
- Paola Corrales
- Mark Crowe
- Huge thanks to outgoing members Arin Basu and Amanda Charbonneau, and also to Jon Wheeler for  stepping up to enrich our election process
- Trainers are invited to community interviews with candidates for Accessibility Coordinator position. Poll here: http://whenisgood.net/ntkzw29
- Please help spread the word about Director of Fundraising position, open through 20 March!
- Posting: https://carpentries.org/director-of-fundraising/
- Tweet: https://twitter.com/thecarpentries/status/1498403855612137476
- Core Team will be on annual retreat next week and will be slow to respond.
- Watch out for time changes!
## Topic of the month: curriculum maintenance
- Pull Request: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pull/126
- Want to be sure that Trainers are not surprised when things change, that they know how and when to interact. We created a policy that we hope fulfills the needs of the community. Purpose is to make it clear, not to overburden and create work. Where Maintainers should take back more power, say so.
- Can anyone make a "patch" PR?
- Anyone can make a PR. Maintainers decide how to handle and what to merge.
- Not asking anyone NOT to contribute a PR, or go through a Maintainer for things
- Prospective hackathon type things -- hope to use more Trainer meeting time and special sessions to do work on curriculum, e.g. generating better concept mapping examples. Sarah Stevens can share git branching workshop
