# Trainer Meeting June 3, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210603T22

***Training discussion (pre and post):***

***Others attending:***
- Ariel Deardorff, she/her, UC San Francisco
- Zac Painter, Stanford
- Darya Vanichkina, University of Sydney
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
- Matthias Liffers, he/him, Australian Research Data Commons
- Kelly Barnes, she/her, The Carpentries
- Megan Guidry, she/her, New Zealand eScience Infrastructure
- Amanda Charbonneau, she/her, UC Davis
- Kate Hertweck / perceived pronouns / Seattle, WA
- Sarah Brown, she/her,
- Murray Cadzow, he/him, University of Otago
- Tim Dennis, he/him, UCLA
- Mark Crowe, he/him, QCIF
- Masami Yamaguchi, she/her, Griffith University

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

***Agenda:***
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Murray and Megan in NZ: 2 days a week, 2 hours each time, 8 sessions total over 4 weeks! Piloted by Darya and Brian. Borrowed slides and tweaked. There was some feedback -- it was a lot of work, seemed like more work to prepare. 8 days almost takes up all of your mind for that whole day. You tend to prepare -- preparations fill up all the time you give them.
- Darya: yes and no to the same situation. We prepare a lot anyway, so we didn't have to spend the whole days before the workshop. An hour the night before across 8 weeks is like 8 hours, not sure if others spend that much time preparing. We were both really experienced and really trust each other. Ok maybe not being less prepared but less on top of every single thing because Brian will have my back and vice versa. We could forget stuff and the other person could fill in. That was different vs people maybe preparing the first time who feel like they need to know everything.
- Megan: we did distribute the teaching load across 4 trainers. If you had to be away for a session you were a little out of touch, didn't know what was covered. Added uncertainty.
- Murray: less about trust, but we were taking a course that someone else had written, we were less familiar with the order in which things were coming. How the content was distributed. We just weren't sure what had been covered previously. It was great to be able to take slides, and it will likely take much less preparation the next time.
- Megan: Generally good feedback. Only thing that came up was that the pace felt a bit fast (maybe unavoidable). I think it did help reduce zoom fatigue. More Trainers struggling than learners.
- Murray: What was cool was people had more opportunity to think about the content and ask questions and things. They could really digest and think about things. Standard feedback iis too much content, too little time.
- Megan: All in all a good month, but leaning towards 4 half day sessions next time.
- Karen & Ariel preparing to teach new curriculum...soon in four half-day format
- Adjusting to new curriculum, given some rearrangements in the ordering of things
- Sarah: does the exporter work with this new curriculum?
- Karen: yes, although it creates an Etherpad template that is not identical to the content end up teaching. Will have a pre-populated Etherpad available, too.
- Murray: we reverse populated the Etherpad. Every time you clicked away and clicked back the whole thing would refresh, so we put new content at the top for each day.

## Announcements
- We still need one or more Trainers to help with an event on June 23-24 in Eastern US time. Partial blocks are ok if you can't stay the whole time. Contact Maneesha if you are available (maneesha@carpentries.org). Local start time here: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentries+Instructor+Training&iso=20210623T09&p1=179&ah=8
- The 2020 Trainers Agreement (v2.0.0 https://github.com/carpentries/docs.carpentries.org/blob/9d02efe525929e9129a6dbb361945d3c9010baa0/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.md ) attempted to create more flexibility for trainers, but unfortunately the language and requirements of the agreement caused significant concerns in the Trainer community. In response, the Trainers Leadership group has decided to develop a formalised process for updates of the Agreement, to ensure that Trainers’ input and concerns are properly addressed in future.
 -
- We would like to assemble a small working group (around four people) to develop this process, and we invite members of the community to be part of this working group. This will be a short project, with the goal of a final proposal to the Leadership group by mid-August. If you would like to make a valuable contribution to the Trainer community without the commitment of a full-year role, we encourage you to volunteer.
 -
- For more information, see the project proposal at https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/106.
 -
- Please be aware that updating of the Agreement for 2021 will have substantially progressed by the time this project is completed; while this update will take into account interim feedback from the working group, full adoption of the new process won’t take effect until 2022.
- Survey on using 'placeholder' for focused discussion of community dynamics:
- Yes, I will go! +++++
- No, I will not go/will not be available +++
- Maybe?+++++
- Comments:
- I'll be visiting family so won't be available, but I'm super interested in the topic! (Kate)
- Current 8am timezones are challenging for me (it's why I've been struggling to mkake meetings in general) b/c of COVID related changes to childcare arrangements
- I'm not in a local community, but would love to learn from people who are -> I think it would be useful to know how many people are in this position. Arguably, I am too...I have a local community (Seattle/PNW) but not really a campus of people.
- I will be teaching that week for a research computing workshop, but as I am in a different location I might be able to make the first meeting
- not available that day
- Pre-sunrise meetings can be tricky.
- Sorry, clash with the Aussie Instructor Training workshop

## Topic of the month: more time to check in on curriculum updates :)
- Karen's summary slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jqjn6xuGrbUrINlmqnRFStesJ0wAWXS1hLxftt9AZIQ/edit?usp=sharing
- Complete updates outline is here: https://pad.carpentries.org/TTT-curriculum-updates-review
- Etherpad updates & response to feedback will begin tomorrow.
- A separate Etherpad will be necessary until changes are merged. Where should it be linked from?
- Will be linked at the top of this Etherpad and also at the top of the current Etherpad template.
- Pull request https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1215
- Rendered curriculum: https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/
- Current (Updates) Day 2 Episode Order:
- Welcome back
- Checkout Process
- The Carpentries:  How We Operate
- Morning Break
- Preparing to Teach
- Working With Your Team
- Lunch
- Live Coding is a Skill
- More Practice Live Coding
- Afternoon Break
- Launches and Landings
- Putting It Together
- Wrapping Up
- Post-Training Survey
- Finish
- Live Coding is a Skill can be substituted with Working with your Team. It could then also go before Preparing to Teach since it is in the same block.

# Trainer meeting, June 3, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210603T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Toby Hodges (post)
- Erin Becker (pre)
- Angelique Trusler (pre/post)
- Allegra Via (pre)

**Others attending**
- Angelique van Rensburg, angelique@carpentries.org
- Mike Trizna, he/him, triznam@si.edu
- Nathaniel Porter, ndporter@vt.edu
- Kelly Barnes, kbarnes@carpentries.org
- Kari L. Jordan
- Karin Lagesen
- Erin Becker, ebecker@carpentries.org
- Alexander Konovalov, he/him, University of St Andrews, alexander.konovalov@st-andrews.ac.uk
- Trisha Adamus, she/her, adamus@wisc.edu
- Daniel Chen, he/him, chend@vt.edu
- Karen Word, she/her, krword@carpentries.org
- David Pérez-Suárez, He/Him, d.perez-suarez@ucl.ac.uk
- François Michonneau, He/him, francois@carpentries.org
- Mark Laufersweiler, he/him, laufers@ou.edu
- Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- Pao Corrales
- Maneesha Sane
- Angela Li
- Aleks Nenadic (apologies for being very late - my previous meeting overrun)

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Karen (please keep an eye out for backup if my connection drops!)

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Toby and Anne taught 4 half day workshop early last month. First time teaching in 4-half-day format. Went all right, felt a bit rusty. There are so many opportunities in the first 2 half days to say things that you will get around to in the second part. Since I can't remember when they are said, I say them anyway and then run out of time, then kick myself for rushing through it on the first day. Would have helped to re-familiarize with all material.
- Workshop website exercise. Mixed experience in GitHub deliberately (surveyed first). Had them do as a group, listing all names in the Instructor field. Ideally having person with most experience not doing the driving. One person said they would have preferred to do it on their own but massively outweighted by the number of people who appreciated.
- Anne did a great job with Code of Conduct section, was able to speak from personal experience and reflected quite openly about what went wrong and what she could have done better. If and when you get a chance to talk to her, check in.
- Note from Karin: CoC committee is opening up for new members. Also reminding group of Instructors in general that if you do deal with a CoC issue in your teaching, please let us know about it.
- Erin and Jeff: using new curriculum. Exciting but significant changes are daunting after teaching so many times. Figuring out how to do the preparation again is a thing! Will we be first? (Karen: many firsts will be happening around the same time).
- Used Karen's slide deck about major changes. Making time, discussing on Slack.
- Allegra: we will teach the new curriculum soon. Will start preparing immediately after bonus module teaching tomorrow with Angelique.
- Angelique: lucky to be pre and post and pre! Taught at Nowrthwest University event in South Africa.
- Amazingly collaborative group. Stretched to 5 days which was lucky to have because thye were tired on day 4.
- Allegra: pretty excited for bonus module, like the activities and materials. A bit worried that rotation will be time consuming. Very curious to see how it is and maybe reporting back.
- Kelly: rotation thing goes ok. It helps to say people's names when you are sending them to rooms.
- Allegra: we have been discussing how to organize the groups when we have 11 participants if everyone shows up. 3 groups, 4 4 and 3. For group f 3 have one them with 2 roles, reporter plus another role instead of having one of us to be the 4th.
- Kelly: typically because the zoom activity takes son long we recommend against groups of 4, and likely you won't hace all 11. If you can you may want to keep groups smaller.
- Karin: maybe you can split larger groups for the zoom activity
- Karen: depends on the total number of groups. Prefer to avoid groups of 2, but can reshuffle people if a group of 4 gets to the zoom activity.

## Announcements
- We still need one or more Trainers to help with an event on June 23-24 in Eastern North America time. Partial blocks are ok if you can't stay the whole time. Contact Maneesha if you are available (maneesha@carpentries.org). Local start time here: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentries+Instructor+Training&iso=20210623T09&p1=179&ah=8
- The 2020 Trainers Agreement (v2.0.0 https://github.com/carpentries/docs.carpentries.org/blob/9d02efe525929e9129a6dbb361945d3c9010baa0/topic_folders/instructor_training/duties_agreement.md) attempted to create more flexibility for trainers, but unfortunately the language and requirements of the agreement caused significant concerns in the Trainer community. In response, the Trainers Leadership group has decided to develop a formalised process for updates of the Agreement, to ensure that Trainers’ input and concerns are properly addressed in future.
 -
- We would like to assemble a small working group (around four people) to develop this process, and we invite members of the community to be part of this working group. This will be a short project, with the goal of a final proposal to the Leadership group by mid-August. If you would like to make a valuable contribution to the Trainer community without the commitment of a full-year role, we encourage you to volunteer.
 -
- For more information, see the project proposal at https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/106.
 -
- Please be aware that updating of the Agreement for 2021 will have substantially progressed by the time this project is completed; while this update will take into account interim feedback from the working group, full adoption of the new process won’t take effect until 2022.
- Survey on using 'placeholder' for focused discussion of community dynamics:
- Yes, I will go! X xxxxxx
- No, I will not go/will not be available xxx
- Maybe? xxxxx
- Comments:

## Topic of the month: more time to check in on curriculum updates :)
- Karen's summary slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jqjn6xuGrbUrINlmqnRFStesJ0wAWXS1hLxftt9AZIQ/edit?usp=sharing
- Complete updates outline is here: https://pad.carpentries.org/TTT-curriculum-updates-review
- Etherpad updates & response to feedback will begin tomorrow.
- A separate Etherpad will be necessary until changes are merged. Where should it be linked from?
- Will be linked at the top of this Etherpad and also at the top of the current Etherpad template.
- Pull request https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/pull/1215
- Rendered curriculum: https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/
