# Trainer meeting, September 2, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210902T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers) - pre
- Trisha Adamus and Ben Chiewphasa (post)

**Others attending**
- Aleksandra Nenadic
- Nathaniel Porter
- Lieke de Boer
- Mike Trizna
- Luis J. Villanueva
- Jannetta Steyn
- Maneesha Sane
- Karen Word
- Grace Fishbein
- Kristin Lee
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Jake Szamosi
- Sarah Brown
- Alexander Konovalov
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Hao Ye
- Ben Chiewphasa
- Kelly Barnes

**Apologies:**
- Angelique Trusler
- Pao Corrales

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Karen

## Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Advice on the new curriculum? 4 day workshop.
- Mostly smoother
- How was timing?
- Sarah B NOt perfect but better than it was. Always variable in Instructor Training because people who know each other want to talk, people who are quiet may be really thoughtful in the etherpad and say nothing verbally which makes you go faster
- Kelly: minute card feedback mid day 1. Wanted to address feedback, did at the beginning of day 2, spent 30 minutes putting us really behind. Also spent a lot of time answering questions about checkout, definitely put us behind. Very little time for Preparing to Teach section.
- Mark L: What we did for concept map on 4 day workshop was to make it homework. (old curriculum) should have included another 30 minutes at the start but had a lot more cooperation and discussion vs previous times. Previously we tried a whiteboard and lost a lot of time to cognitive overload. Homework with prior examples worked out really well.
- Karen: You will still have to cut. Will talk in a bit about where I am cutting in further revisions, but these will not be merged unless you want them to be before your workshop. 4 day events have more time.
- Jake: teaching in a couple of weeks. How is this different from teaching a technical workshop?
- Trisha: They are really different. Technical workshop there is a definite script and you are typing commands, lots of structure. Training is more discussion, you are really a facilitator with those discussions. If you have a quiet group you have to pull answers out of those folks.
- Sarah B: Agree. Preparation is alos a lot different. Very confident in programming; even after Trainer Training first experience was harder to build flow and feel fluid with curriculum. Very different from day-to-day. Planning what to cut in advance is more important. Doing it on the fly in technical workshops is fairly easy based on interest. Because topics are interwoven, knowing you will cover things later can help make cuts earlier etc.
- Maneesha: Agree. Will add one of the things that impacts, have to know how pieces are connected together. For Instructor Training the training by itself includes formative and summative assessment. Your participation has summative impact, completing the training results in a certificate. We don't normally offer that for technical workshops. That impacts the way that I teach, the way that I engage learner participation.
- Mike T. Having examples ready -- in a Carpentries lesson only look at commands. Text explanations are too much. All there is in IT is text explanations! Have examples, notes, touch tones to look at, highly recommend.
- Trisha and Ben taught recently. Ben's first workshop! New curriculum. 2-day workshop. Some administrative feedback, some curriculum feedback. We had a participant who stated that they would have appreciated more explicit email communication about homework. Evening between the 2 days was booked, didn't feel that they had time to prep their demo even for a low-stakes setting. Had a participant who signed up because they heard about it through RStudio which recommends Carpentries training as a replacement for on-hold RStudio course. Disconnect in expectations.
- (discussion about RStudio and intent to contact them to flesh out redirect)
- Kelly: Currently in the process of overhauling communications with trainees. Good time to make sure we are clear about homework. Trying to cut down massive blocks of text and be strategic about what is conveyed when.
- Jake: it isn't always clear to me that it's reasonable to do homework given that they have other obligations in the evenings. Maybe instead of changing communication we should change that.
- Kelly: more advice in advance may help them to do it before the workshop...
- Mark: They may be less prepared on day 2 but making sure it is clear ahead of time may help.
- Sarah: Having people read outside is important. Checkout lists etc. reading in class is tough because people read at different paces. We want them to read it carefully and they are more likely to do that elsewhere.
- Jake: Prep in advance is fine, but the evening between the 2 days is probably hard for a lot of people.
- Karen: should we drop the article we have them read in advance?
- Mark: maybe keep it as optional reading. Fine with them not havin to read it but don't want to lose the resource
- Hao maybe link with the checkout process? Nathaniel: maybe at end?
- Grace: How many learners review curriculum ahead of time?
- Trisha: We have a couple more points about curriculum.
- Did not pop into breakout rooms during teaching demos. There were qeustions about why we don't. Our feedback during that process
- Karen: when I show up in the room, I don't like the impact. I want them to figure out how to give good feedback and think critically about this without being told right and wrong
- Sarah B: agree they need to be figuring out feedback. If you see people who might not be giving good feedback you need to mix up the groups. People will get frustrated about not getting good feedback. Trainees oten like it if the groups say the same, but that only works if the group is uniformly giving good feedback.
- Kelly: Have kept same groups to build trust, hadn't thought about how you know that feedback isn't great.
- Sarah B: sometimes you'll have one or two trainees who just write off topic stuff in the etherpad. Or sometimes in the minute cards feedback you'll hear that they didn't get good feedback. Or dysfunctionally bad internet connection that prevents them from participating well.
- Trisha: Also weren't sure about our language. There was anxiety about homework, figuring out how to validate but also calm that anxiety. "It's just 5 minutes" we don't want to dismiss performance anxiety. Very quiet group, talking in etherpad, trying to get them to verbally participate, didn't want to have a participation heirarchy by ranking verbal above written feedback. How do you keep learners confident and comfortable without dismissing their discomfort
- Ben: Etherpad is such a wonderful tool for engaging more introverted learners. But if we end an exercise and ask for verbal participation, is randomly selecting someone tacitly creating participation heirarchy... One strategy when no one is volunteering, we came up with follow-up questions on etherpad.

### Announcements
- Curriculum timeline:
- Updates to Updates PR: https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pull/92 <- would like to merge with data-lessons repo by Sept 24 at the latest, sooner if compatible with September trainings. This PR may expand a little further, but changes to date are ready for review and comment. These include:
- New mental model example with concept maps
- Smoothed integration of formative assessment across episodes
- Moved checkout content back to Extras page, leaving only activities in curriculum page.
- Reorganized Preparing to Teach episode, including replacement of Blooms with more explicit Blooms-derived content
- Cuts: MCQs (remain in discussion), Learner Profiles
- Possible additions include more work on EIA module, rhythm & timing
- Survey regarding updates will precede merge with main repo and formal release.

### Topic of the month: Instructor Training Report
- Blog post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/09/2021_IT_Report/
- Report: https://carpentries.github.io/2021_IT_report/index.html


# Trainer Meeting September 2, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210902T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Pao Corrales (post)

**Others attending**
- Murray Cadzow
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Samar Elsheikh
- Kate Hertweck
- Christina Koch
- Karen Word
- Zac Painter
- Kelly Barnes
- Liz Stokes
- Jon Wheeler
- Jeff Oliver
- Sara King
- Angela Li
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Mark Crowe

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Karen (?)

## Agenda:
### Introductions
### Pre and post workshop discussion
- Workshop in Spanish! 25 people interested and a waiting list, only 22 came for the whole course. INcluded a 5th day for checkout which was not mandatory, but 16 completed all 3 checkout steps on that day. Supported to do the checkout, and did with the whole group. Some things to share: 1) In terms of checkout, most contributed with issues or pull requests to different lessons. For most of them they were their first issue or pull request, not much experience with GitHub. This environment we create where we explain it and they felt like they could do it and could try it out around people they knew was great. Pull request party! The other thing that surprised us and should have anticipated was that on average they didn't know much about The Carpentries. They weren't that familiar with not only the organization but how the workshops work, how they can contribute or participate. We started giving them little by little information, but in the end when we talk about Carpentries they felt like we should have started with that on the first day. Maybe the community in Latin America is smaller, maybe we can start with something like a Carpentries introduction at the beginning for those who don't know much about the community, to make the pcoress a little more familiar after that. Lastly, they were very preocuppied about teaching online and doing live coding on line. Switched topics and gave time to think about teaching online possible issues, shared their fears or concerns, tried to come up with solutions or ideas so they could feel more confident. A very nice conversation between colleagues sharing their experience. Big highlight during the event. Those that didn't complete checkout scheduled some sessions in Spanish so they can complete in Spanish. Tried to support them, bt we'll see if they all check out.
- Christina: if people were less familiar with The Carpentries, what was their interest in being trained? What was their motivation to come and participate?
- Pao: Some of them did know the Carpentries. Have a colleague that wanted to learn more or get training about education and coding -- at the beginning we were very open to invite everyone, but at one point we had a dozen people on the waitlist. If we had thought this through more carefully maybe we could have been more selective to find a group that was more diverse or represented more countries, but the people who didn't know much were more outside the group of people who had participated previously.
- Karen: sometimes we get people who haven't really been told much at all or were just told to come.
- Brian: we have had that. Sometimes external forces pushing people creates mismatch.
- institutional mismatch: boss says go, they go. but it's extrinsic motiavation. Maybe worried about repurcussios
- open signup they may not remember why they signed up. Might just look good on cv. Motivation to teach workshops may not line up. They want to be part of the thing, but they don't necessarily want to teach or know what they rare getting into
- Liz: pull request party and support for PRs and commits. Is there an existing issue on what makes a good commit? Know this came up recently, interested in running a session on it at a local CarpentryConnect later this year.
- Pao: We gave them 3 options. Contribute doing translations, contribute incorporating terms on glossario, and contribute with a PR or issue from the lesson they prepared. Most did that and we checked what they found that they wanted to improve or change or comment on. Thought they were very interesting things. Set expectations saying 'you will do this issue or pr, maintainers will read them, maybe they will respond, probably they will merge or maybe not depending on the situation. don't feel if they don't accept it you won't pass the checkout or it isn't good enough. Will ask the maintainers what they are expecting. we also learned all together the technical methods, screen shared, celebrate every success.

### Announcements
- Curriculum timeline:
- Updates to Updates PR: https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pull/92 <- would like to merge with data-lessons repo by Sept 24 at the latest, sooner if compatible with September trainings. This PR may expand a little further, but changes to date are ready for review and comment. These include:
- New mental model example with concept maps
- Smoothed integration of formative assessment across episodes
- Moved checkout content back to Extras page, leaving only activities in curriculum page.
- Reorganized Preparing to Teach episode, including replacement of Blooms with more explicit Blooms-derived content
- Cuts: MCQs (remain in discussion), Learner Profiles
- Possible additions include more work on EIA module, rhythm & timing
- Survey regarding updates will precede merge with main repo and formal release.

### Topic of the month: Instructor Training Report
- Blog post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/09/2021_IT_Report/
- Report: https://carpentries.github.io/2021_IT_report/index.html
- Can we provide benchmarks for Trainers to know when they are doing a good job? Separate from averages which tend to be high.
- Do we know who checks out and who doesn't? Can we help members decide who to recruit based on who checks out?
- How do you increase checkout rates? Pao did a *lot* of work last year, with 4 Trainers on board to share the load, as well as this year to support people through checkout, but it paid off and people felt more confident to do the process with us and in Spanish.
- Where do Librarians fit in? Are they faculty or research staff? <- maybe we need to adjust this question... but what categories will work better? Liz may follow up to try to figure out what people call themselves in Australia. 
- Brian: do we care? Maybe fixed vs continuing would be more productive.
- Would like to look at this against Membership's report, to better understand how we fit into the bigger picture.
