# Trainer meeting, 16 Sept 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210916T14

**Attending**
- Aleksandra Nenadic, she/her, Software Sustainability Institute, UK
- Grace Fishbein
- Luis J. Villanueva
- Kristin Lee
- Mike Trizna
- Kelly Barnes
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
- Sarah Brown
- Pao Corrales (she/her)
- Maneesha Sane
- Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
- Hao Ye, he/him, University of Florida, USA
- Yani Bellini Saibene (she/her), Santa Rosa, La Pampa, Argentina
- Kari L. Jordan (she/her), The Carpentries, Florida (USA)
- Alexander Konovalov (he/him), St Andrews, Scotland
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Karen Word
- Jannetta Steyn (she/her), Newcastle University, UK


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Announcements
## Topic of the month: Certification Renewals
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cgm1sNVHSn3y_69LArALEyjSLI0pgNpSGW_ye9I1TDo/edit?usp=sharing
- Kari: Can you tell me more about what self-reporting would look like and appproval from Leadership?
- Karen: We have used a form in the past, we would start wtih that form and add some questions. How many workshops have you run? How many demos have you run? What kinds of things have you been doing at the local level? What kinds of things are you doing more braodly in The Carpentries? There was some discussion that people would like help keeping track of this throughout the year. But that would be optional. We will continue to have renewals around this time of year with a form to report on what you have done and how you feel that meets the expectations. It would be on Trainers Leadership to review those. With an eye towards inclusivity. We are just looking for people who haven't been active, keeping their skills up, or engaged.
- Sarah: How do we meet Trainee needs and be responsive but also meet our capacity needs?
- Mark: We have had a lot of discussions about what inactive means. We have not addressed if someone might be movedc to alumni because of a particular circumstance (e.g, the year of my defense). To feel welcoming, I would like to see a recognition of that you can move from alumni back to active. Alumni status is not permament.
- Sarah: You caught the expert awareness gap on this. This already exists, but we didn't make it clear in the document.
- Karen: It is there but needs to be more explicitly.
- Mike: Is there a possible alternative term to alumni? It seems more permanent based on the analogy of an alumni of a university.
- Hao(in chat):  "active" and "inactive"?
- Kari(in chat): Active/inactive +1
- Karen: Good point. Maybe we can just do active and inactive. There is a recognition that there are various needs. Some people do move on and don't plan to come back. But, yes, alumni doesn't fit as well as it might.
- Mark: It sounds like there is really three levels.
- Karen: One of our goals is to get at minimum expectations. This is tough. There are differences in how differnet Trainers participate. Membership might need to develop their own standards so that we can relax ours to be more inclusive. We want to set standards that are high enough to have our community be what we want it to be. What do we need to be sure Trainers are prepared to train and to be sure our community can sustainably run?
- Mark: Who's goals are being addressed in this document?  Membership goals versus community goals. I'd rather keep people even if they can't meet a membership level.
- Karen: Don't worry about membership. We also need to recognize that teaching a certain number of trainings is not possible in certain regions.
- Yani: Is it an and or an or? I know I can't comply to all of this. The danger is the most privileged people can be Trainers. I don't think we want that as a community. I also understand that The Carpentries needs to be sustainable.
- Karen: We need to figure out a minimum threshhold that will work for all of us. It is hard to have these conversations at Trainer meetings because the people who come here tend to be the most active.
- Sarah: We want to make sure we are communicating our expectations so that Trainers don't count themselves out when they shouldn't. What do we need in writing so that people understand how flexible we are trying to be?
- Karen: Last year we introduced units, and it was quiet for awhile but then we started hearing people were uncomfortablew with it. It felt like a work contract, but that was not at all the intention.
- Pao: In the last agreement there was a differnce between workshops organzied via a membership, scholarship, or generally. I don't see that here and wonder how that would work.
- Karen: On the sponsored Instructor Training side, your area is a priority. As far as what that means for your work as a Trainer and whether sponsored events count toward service. WE have not included that here. Definitely in your case, that would need to count for you.
- Luis: Would moving to want Instructor Training leave The Carpentries hanging?
- Karen: We will need to figure out what we can do, but for this time, let's just talk about what is reasonable.
- Sarah: We might suggest 2, but we won't inactivate your certification if you teach only 1.
- Mark: We don't talk about that when Maneesha puts out a call, it is not guranteed we will get a training. Does the fact that you actually volunteered count for something?
- Sarah: We thought about that and asked the Core Team to pull that data. We are going to keep digging in and see what we can do about that. I think this is a bigger problem in certain parts of the world.


# Trainer Meeting 16 Sept 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210921T22

**Attending**
- Zac Painter, Stanford
- Kelly Barnes
- Amanda Charbonneau (she/her) Michigan
- Trisha Adamus (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA
- Ariel Deardorff (she/her), University of California, San Francisco, CA USA
- Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ
- Kate Hertweck (perceived pronouns), Seattle, WA
- Rainier Barrett (he/him), Boise State University, ID USA
- Sara King (she/her), AARNet, Australia
- Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM
- Jake Szamosi (w/e), McMaster University
- Liz Stokes, (she/they) Australian Research Data Commons
- Masami Yamaguchi (she/her) Griffith University
- Tim Dennis (he/him) UCLA
- Daniel Chen (he/him), Virginia Tech
- Karen Word (she/her) Davis, CA
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech


Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Announcements
## Topic of the month: Certification Renewals
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cgm1sNVHSn3y_69LArALEyjSLI0pgNpSGW_ye9I1TDo/edit?usp=sharing
- Zac: Earlier this year, I had no idea what my schedule would be. If a baseline is set, what happens if you can't meet that baseline.
- Karen: Currently, if someone geos to alumni status, tehre is a three month grace period where they don't do anything. This would say that if your status expires, you will need to meet with me. But that is all that is required to renew.
- Jake: I'm unclear of what the practical consequences of being changed to alumni status are. I could still renew and teach again. The idea I think is to encourage people to be active participants. Is there a different kind of framework than losing status. In the case of option A, that sounds like an executive funtion nightmare.
- Karen: To some extent we track that, but there are other things we can't and don't track. There are a lot of ways to participate that we aren't tracking. We want to know how you see what you have done. We have also talked about giving people an opportunity to track that trhoughout the year.
- Amanda: There is a problem of incentivization with this docuemnt. The reward you get for being current is that you get to do more work. What happens if you don't teach enough is that you don't get to teach again with talking to someone. It is not clear what incentives we can offer and it feels weird to make up incentives just to take them away. We want to make sure Trainers are up to date. And we need people to soft commit to doing enough trainings that The Carpentries can keep going. The overhead of remembering to report: We are only going to require people to tell us what they've done once a year. But if you want to do it over time, you can do that as part of emailing the core team after a workshop.
- Ariel: Follow up on question of incentives: Could I get a slot in every workshop that I teach for someone in my community? What is missing is what do I get for doing this in return? That would also be a clear thing I could point to my boss and say this is a benefit.
- Amanda: I really like that idea because we are missing incentives. If anyone has other ideas, I'd love to hear it.
- Karen: I have brought this up with the Director of Membership and we will continue to push for that. I agree it is deserved and should happen.
- Liz: The role of Trainers, they have taken more of a custodian or community elder type role. Because the mode of engagement has been becoming an instructor then an instructor or instructors. It has certain features. I became aware of this when reviewing applications to be Trainers. Lots of people are saying being a Trainer will help them build their local communities. Seeing these things emerge is intersting and we are dealing wtih this here as well. There is now other opportunities to engage in The Carpentries, so it is important to recognize the benefits that Trainers bring, who is responsible for community building, It is kind of hard to work out the demand and the motivation to recognize the work of Trainers at this time.
- Karen: We also have a new Director of Community and she will be speaking to this group. I want to emphasize that there are conversations about memberships. Membership has created a lot of tension in creating this document. This document doesn't address the needs of membership. What we are trying to do is separate membership criteria from Trainer criteria. We want to create a minimum criteria that is inclusive for Trainers. We want a standard that doesn't need so many exceptions including for Trainers in areas where we don't run many trainings, or internet is a problem, or we don't run trainings in their language. I also kind of want to separate the question of sustainability. First we want to know what the community wants. What do you think is realistic? And then we will see if we can do that.
- Kate: It doesn't surprise me to have this covnersation and that it feels like a repeated covnersation. As the community gets larger, the greater need we have to automate these things. The model being proposed feels better emotionally. There is space for me to message Karen and have a conversation about what my participation looks like. We can never find language that makes everytone feel most comfortabl,e but focusing on what matters most as a community is good. Also, what is the lifespan of a Trainer. And it is ok to say that you want to step away after a certain time. In other orgs. I've heard that 6 months is the norm for active participation.
- Jake: Is incentives the wrong frame? If you don't teach in a year or longer, you will be marked as inactive unless you have a conversation. This is more about keep track of our resources rather than anything to do with us.
- Karen: If we could find a way to make the langauge less personal, that could help.
- Jeff: Are these responses independent of one another?
- Karen: Each column is independent
- Daniel: Are short on Instructors for training or demos or both?
- Karen: I think we are ok, but we are setting up a capacity task force. Because we have been trainer so many trainers, I think we are doing ok. We have decided to wait to run our next Trainer Training in January.
- Rainier: In the current agreement, we have these meetings as counting. I think we should include that as well if we are going to move away from number of hours. I didn't see that mentioned in the new doc.
- Ariel: I see people from NZ who want a demo. I usually jsut schedule things randomly, but I could schedule more strategically.
- Karen: We need to look at quarterly scheduling times for demos.
