# Trainer Meeting July 1, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210701T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Liz Stokes, (Mark) and Masami (post)
- Sarah Brown (post)
- Karen Word (post)
- Jeff Oliver (post - it was so long ago, I forgot)

**Others attending**
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Kate Hertweck
- Tim Dennis
- Christina Koch (mainly lurking)

## Favorite warmups:
- Jargon busting: have tables work out what jargon they don't know and introduce it up. Creates small groups and allows to cherry-pick from rest of workshop.
- In an ideal world, where would you travel?
- If you had to choose anything to fight a t-rex (mineral animal, veg extinct or extant)
- What's the mythical creature in your home town
- Large icebreaking ship slide. Ropensci icebreaker was great: https://ropensci.org/blog/2018/11/01/icebreaker/
- also, ice breaking ship: https://www.antarctica.gov.au/antarctic-operations/travel-and-logistics/ships/icebreaker/
- Recently enjoyed dividng people in to 2-3, find common things among them. (not totally obvious), hobbies etc
- In class used zoom chat, asked favorite rainy day activity. lots of netflix etc but some really great answers. Spin in a chair until dizzy
- If someone came to visit you, what would be something to do? local touristy things. Also with a larger group, standing in a circle, everyone says something about themselves, if you have that in common you step in to the circle then step back
- Instructor trainee suggested favorite mythical creature from where you grew up. More corporate setting what works well is tell us what you're excited about doing for work this week. That's the golden icebreaker that gets them to talk. Geophysicists all talk amongst themselves..

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Karen

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Announcements
- We are looking for Trainers to support a 3-day online Instructor Training event customized for participants in Africa as part of CarpentryConnect South Africa. Customization may include additional support for interacting on GitHub, added break time, and otherwise strategizing for maximal inclusivity among learners from diverse languages and backgrounds. If possible, we would like to have at least 3 Trainers on board for this event.
- September 13-17, 2021
- 8:30 AM to 1:00 PM South Africa time & Central European Time
- 7:30 AM to 12:00 PM British Summer Time
- 4:30 PM to 9:00 PM Australia Eastern Standard Time
- See the time in your time zone: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentry+Connect+ZA&iso=20210913T0830&p1=111&ah=4&am=30
- Another teaching opportunity likely in August, North America Central time. Astronomy-related audience. Keep an eye out for communications about this!

## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Liz, Mark C and Masami
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RqRVWgPcQPs_VKob3E85y4PVguqhl_HXnqP0s_AnP30/edit#
- Good experience, eventually got to teaching the content, not teaching to slides, very proud of doing that. Some of that introductory content is really hard not to have lots of slides. Recent updates have interspersed more activites in a good way.
- Google Slide captions worked well for some and terribly for others
- Responded to constant feedback, surveys at the end of each 4 hour session, addressed and tweaked things every day, worked well. Loved live coding, requests to spend an hour on live coding, even more. Would change next time: not talk about how to do the checkout procedure but to do some work in demonstrating. Explained the process, took people through it, but seemed to be a lot of confusion about what was involved and continued questions. Feedback was such that they wanted a *good* example. How to make an issue or submit a change that is good and not trivial. Need to work on example to demonstrate a good issue.
- note: the maintainer community may be thinking about what a good contribution looks like an dhow to describe one
- Changed Instructors at Morning break. Worked well, other was zoom dj. Didn't expect that there was so much confusion around checkout. That was a surprise. Concept map, we revisited the next tday to answer their questions. Received many questions about that at the end of the day. Time estimation is still a little optimistic. Have our own action list to give structured feedback. Created an isse in GitHub. For groupwork liked to have same groups for demo and practices. Other activities mixed them up randomly. It was really good, they got more comfortable with teammembers to deliver their demo and give feedback. Their improveent was phenomenal.
- Darya: A good contribution is one that finds a bug/problem. It is hard to do and takes time. Is the aim of the contribution really to take the time to go through the lesson? It is really more about using the tool. Guidance on a good issue might be a barrier.
- Sarah: Lowering the barrier to commenting on existing issues etc is still valuable, even though creating issues is a lot of work
- Liz: geography may be a facet. A certain level of anxiety in trainees is when you engage with that part of checkout that's the scary terrifying and terribly exciting part of approaching friendly strangers. Maybe a sense of hoping you don't do anything wrong, want to be a good community member. Maybe this is more common in Australia -- North American people seem more foreign and far away.
- Masami: Past workshops the checkout process was just introducing do this do that, it is sort of a flipped class now, we get them to discuss stuff around checkout. They might have thought checkout through more deeply than before. I think this is good in a wya. They took it seriously maybe too seriously but nothing wrong with them thinking through the process very seriously. Maybe we can lighten up their thoughts.
- Darya: as soon as you introduce a workshop, it's appealing because you don't ahve to do a thing. But could we create a lesson repository that is more of a sandbox, mythical creatures with random fun stuff, maybe that would be easier to contribute to but takes away the pressure.
- Karen: Maybe a semi-useful repo?
- Darya: no. Silly. Fun. It is a summative assessment, but it doesn't have to be onerous.
- Sarah Brown: Actually got less checkout questions than previous. Very specific pointed questions, but not panic. Very quiet group and thoughtful. Very detailed etherpad comments and rarely spoke.
- Pacing overall was much better. Fewer times we had to decide what to skip. Did end up not going through concept maps -- basically skipped that overall. Then didn't get all the questions about concept mapping that we usually get.
- Trainees thanked for keeping time, Etherpad.
- Feedback about rubric. They thought it was helpful to use the rubric that we use in demos, but didn't think there was enough time to really get into it, looking for something fillable or checkable. Need to introduce in a better way and talk about how we actually use it (not filling it out literally). Appreciated the 2x2 rubrics.
- More noticed how often we modeled the practice we were teaching. That came up in one up one down. Do something and then later it comes up.
- Number of people resulted in some groups of 2 because 4 takes too long. Commented that those groups were not as helpful. Suggested that a Trainer could join 2-person groups.
- MOre time with launching and landings episode, appreciated chance to do introductions, prompts were helpful to think through. It felt a little choppy from Trainers perspective, but trainees appreciated it.
- EasyRetro tool for minutecards was good. They can give sticky notes and thumbs up other sticky notes. Can respond to notes. Sometimes addressed comments specifically.
- https://easyretro.io/publicboard/u1d2YYNNKVNuCOd3MWM7gji0cCX2/c66814a4-c527-47c1-bba6-12c97a0684d7
- https://easyretro.io/publicboard/u1d2YYNNKVNuCOd3MWM7gji0cCX2/96638367-4c00-45ef-94b0-8cc4a5d174b8
- Brian: be careful with public sticky notes. When we solicit them and make them public vs private their character changes (a lot). If you are trying for focused stickies where there will be substantive content, wouldn't make them public at all, because people don't want to perform negative feedback even anonymously. Public mode you get a lot more cheering but you have to tease out patterns. Darya and I summarized stickies to reflect them without showing them. Any outliers that were really critical were glossed over. (reframing in a more constructive manner). Also did public feedback one-up-one-down.
- Sarah: one up one down if they don't repeat can be really specific and useful negative feedback.
- Stickies were one thing you learned/ one question you still have. This is probably easier to respond to honestly in public.
- No one complained about how we operate being too much information or lecture! Changed feedback and tone
- Jeff: echoing some things already mentioned. Liz mentioned peopl ewant more time for interactive stuff. That will always be the feedback. There will be some lecture time, and that's ok. ONe of the fun things is it leads off with heavy passive learning and then switches over to practice and feedback, it looks like you are responding to their feedback that they want more activity time. Masami noted that there still need to be cuts, that may always be true too. Sarah mentioned that they liked us modeling the best practices. Did get a lot of comments on that, wouldn't say I've goten those in the past, but it seems to be related to the new curriculum. Getting critical feedback is tough, and anonymous feedback is sometimes the only way people will be honest, however that works out. Taught with Erin.
- Code of Conduct Examples: what should we do?
- Liz: It woudl be weird to use real examples, but having real and practiced examples are beneficial.
- Asking about EIA bonus module. Where is that up to? Good feedback, and it went really well.
- Kate: A lot of the options seem really outside the scope of a workshop because they take time. Bystander intervention trainings, example of event and process. Bifurcating -- do you file a report online or do you not? It doesn't have to be an actual example, but it could be realistic enough to consider how those types of things are handled. Think it is valuabel to point out htose transparency reports. Not airing our dirty laundry. Tend to say that we have more CoC violations than are reported and that is a problem. MOre things should be reported, not put our finger on it and push, but make processes better
- Sarah: second time in this workshop online trainings get a european claim that they don't understand these things because they are from ____. Don't know how to respond to that.
- Masami: one participant suggested a video around CoC situations. Maybe we can ask the committee or find something from YouTube like we have videos about bad and good teaching. Maybe we can discuss.  EIA section received well.

# Trainer meeting, July 1, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210701T14

**Apologies:**
- Angelique Trusler
- Konrad Förstner

## Training discussion (pre and post):
- Karen Word
- Angela Li (she/her) / François Michonneau (https://fmichonneau.github.io/2021-06-07-ttt-online-EDT/)
- Debrief slides from our first time teaching the beta version of Instructor Training, and over 4 days: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h7nxOZNxaddI8ltikmY-4dz1MLLpoTsjmBxYPclgHh0/edit?usp=sharing
- Post workshop debrief slides - template: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kLqFdMZ2UCn6ass20k4gZN5yAZJ9Fmw7wHZzyE7o87c/edit?usp=sharing
- Maneesha (with Mark) https://maneesha.github.io/2021-07-19-ttt-online-CDT/
- Sarah (with Kelly and Zhian)
- Aleks Nenadic

**Others attending**
- Toby Hodges (he/him)
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Mike Trizna (he/him)
- Pao Corrales (she/her)
- Luis J. Villanueva
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
- Aleks Nenadic (she/her)
- Zac Painter
- Maneesha Sane
- David Pérez-Suárez (he/him/his)
- Mark Laufersweiler(he/him)
- Kari L. Jordan (she/her)
- Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker: Karen
- Warmup ideas!
- If you could choose to absorb a new skill, what would it be?
- Favorite drink
- "What's your favorite warmup?"
- Something that you know or something that you want to learn (connect people with skills!)
- Favorite ice cream (especially if everyone is in summer); Tea or Coffee
- Tell me something interesting/funny/random about your desk. Feared it would be intrusive but people like it
- Where would you teleport yourself right now? (nice during lockdown!) or best thing that happened in the past year or a book you would recommend/are reading or tv show
- Who inspired you to do what you do today?
- Last thing they read (all inclusive)
- "Which One Doesn't Belong https://ecdn.teacherspayteachers.com/thumbitem/Which-One-Doesn-t-Belong-2D-Shapes-Freebie-3648056-1547494749/original-3648056-4.jpg or https://ecdn.teacherspayteachers.com/thumbitem/Which-One-Doesn-t-Belong-2D-Shapes-Freebie-3648056-1547494749/original-3648056-3.jpg
- favorite emoji - works best with people who use emojis a lot OR what application do you hope to use this workshop for / tell us about your field or context, how will this workshop fit in
- what could we talk to you about at the next break? Talk about research or personal -- then set up breakouts to talk at break time!
- favorite food, candy

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Announcements
- We are looking for Trainers to support a 3-day online Instructor Training event customized for participants in Africa as part of CarpentryConnect South Africa. Customization may include additional support for interacting on GitHub, added break time, and otherwise strategizing for maximal inclusivity among learners from diverse languages and backgrounds. If possible, we would like to have at least 3 Trainers on board for this event.
- September 13-17, 2021
- 8:30 AM to 1:00 PM South Africa time & Central European Time
- 7:30 AM to 12:00 PM British Summer Time
- 4:30 PM to 9:00 PM Australia Eastern Standard Time
- See the time in your time zone: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentry+Connect+ZA&iso=20210913T0830&p1=111&ah=4&am=30
- Another teaching opportunity likely in August, North America Central time. Astronomy-related audience. Keep an eye out for communications about this!

## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Angela & François
- Slides! See here: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h7nxOZNxaddI8ltikmY-4dz1MLLpoTsjmBxYPclgHh0/edit?usp=sharing
- If you want to use this format for post-workshop reporting, here's a template: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kLqFdMZ2UCn6ass20k4gZN5yAZJ9Fmw7wHZzyE7o87c/edit?usp=sharing
- First 4 half day -- more time to adjust as you go.
- daily email updates to clarify assignments
- Successfully avoided a double-booked Zoom room -- woo hoo!
- LOTS of concepts at the beginning -- each idea gets less time now.  If you are used to going into depth, knowing that this needs to go a little faster is important.
- Learner profiles execrise wasn't as useful, wished had focused on checkpoints exercise instead.
- Positive feedback on values exercise
- People love the diverse classroom exercise, CoC was not concrete, do not feel prepared to troubleshoot. Concrete examples desired.
- Pre-workshop assignments are not aligned with the curriculum.
- not an authentic task, learners were upset that it isn't discussed anywhere
- break pages could include instructions for 4 day training, additional resources
- Checklist of what to check in with your co-Trainer would be nice.
- Live transcript functionalities
- Switched to slides part way through. 21 was a big group, harder to have a lively discussion. Needed slides to do more lecture.
- Many trainees had videos off. Not sure how to handle this.
- Feedback especially on DEI needs to be collected and aggregated -- community discussion?
- Transcription privacy concerns:
- in the past you had to subscribe to a 3rd party service, so this made privacy more obscure. Now part of Zoom means it is more straightforward where the data goes if it is being used. There are few Open Source live transcription services, don't know that it's being used widely
- Aleks: otter.ai -- if you know the url you can access the transcriptions. Letting everyone know it is being done. The fact that it is publicly available is tough, they forget that transcriptions are on, chat, breaks, have to be careful what you joke about.
- Mike: US gov't rules have issues with transcribing meetings in Zoom, which is taking notes, which is discoverable through FOIA requests. Recommend don't record or transcribe unless you are keeping these in a place that can be recovered later.
- Maneesha & Mark are planning to teach a workshop coming up.
- Teaching with the old curriculum because haven't had time to get fully acquainted with the new one. 4 day.
- Re Angela's request for a Trainer checklist, Maneesha made a Google Doc with a few routine questions to ask a co-Trainer. In this case specific questions about converting schedule. Might be in a resource place? Will share.
- Mark: if you're doing it together or teaching 2 days, sometimes people break to half days. Because it is already a half day and we want learners to engage with both instructors, we'll do the "shotgun approach" and pick bits we want to teach. Both engage at the same time and through the course of the day.
- Sarah filled in last minute to help out, only there in the morning. First time couldn't be there the whole time, FOMO on missing other sessions! Not sure what they talked about yesterday, don't know the new material well. Only there in the morning, only saw Kelly teach first morning and taught second morning.  Did teach the second morning. Even in the old material, almost never get to Preparing to Teach. Often have to skip this section. Is this bad? Spent more time on the checkout process. Lots of questions about how Carpentries workshops work, helping and teaching very naturally, hate to cut this off. Bad at redirecting questions to later. LIve coding went up to lunch break. Next time will take awesome notes like Angela. :)
- Kari: question for the whole room. Since becoming a Trainer, a lot of us have had to cut content for various reasons. Running out of time or wanting to focus on conversations. Talking about how our lesson programs have core curriculum. Wondering, is it necessary for us to have the same conversation for Instructor Training, nowing that there are a lot of constants, and depending on your audience it may make sense to skip somethings but at a minimum we need to cover certain things.
- Toby: Preparing to Teach has been a section I have slimmed down but really try to make time for thinking in advance about exercises you will use vs skip over. So much of IT is about what we do when we are actually in the workshop; it is really valuable to spend at least a little time talking about what you do in the lead up. Have talked to a few great Instructors who have recognized that IT isn't the only curriculum with time challenges. Effective Instructors have plan A, B, and C. Know the checkpoints for time, decide not to do the next part. That kind of ability to choose different paths demands time investment beforehand. When pressed for time, skip quickly through learner profiles and learning objectives, focus on formative assessments and intentin
- Aleks taught with Steve Crouch. Often teach together. Used an old curriculum, knew we had to slim some sections, sat down and explicitly thought about which sections to skip. Spend loads of time planning, but still not enough time for some things. Had a big group (23-24). Very engaged, 4 half days. Did mornings. Training before that we did afternoons. Slight preference for the mornings because people are fresher. Tues-Fri gives you time on Monday for prep. Worked well for participants as well, not so overwhelming, can do some other work. Not as drained. Overall went really well. Also decided to spend the whole 3rd morning on live coding, to give people enough time to do it. What did not go so well is that we forgot to set the homework after the end of Day 3, to read about Carpentries operations. When it came to talkinga bout this, there were SO many links and information, and it was really overwhelming. Noticed in this workshop and in the past, we don't account for the discussions. Time for teaching, time for exercises, no time for discussions. Very difficult to interrupt to say we can't discuss these things because we have to move on. Going in to topics of interest.  Were also asked about CoC violation examples. Need a link to the transparency reports -- 1-2 examples would be ideal. Did not have time to do the workshop website exercise. Offered it to them because time was tight. Most voted to move on, because they were familair with working with git and GitHub, felt comfortable following instructions. There were a few that wanted to do it and we couldn't accommodate 
