# Trainer meeting, January 21, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210121T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Christina (pre)


**Others attending**
- Kari L. Jordan
- Serah Rono
- Angelique van Rensburg
- Mateusz Kuzak
- Toby Hodges
- Aleksandra Nenadic
- Kate Hertweck
- Lex Nederbragt
- Pao Corrales
- Konrad FÃ¶rstner
- Bianca Peterson
- Christina Koch
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers)
- Maneesha Sane
- Karen Word
- Kelly Barnes

**Notetaker:**
Would someone be willing to take notes for us? I can take this on (Serah)

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Christina - pre-workshop
- 4 half-day trraining in February with Melissa
- live-coding scheduled for te second half day
- looking for tips from people who have done this before
- Kate:
- has taught a 4 half-day workshop before and thinks it is a great idea
- a lot more work might be needed to tied the different days together between the days
- Paola:
- live-coding session was on the second and third half-days - it was scary for participants on the second day and they were more relaxed on the third day because of experiences from the previous day
- Angelique
- link to Etherpad https://pad.carpentries.org/2020-07-27-ttt-online-SAST
- feedback was that it helped participants to revisit content with instructors ( in the free part of the day) before the next sessions
- was exhausting for trainers - recommends taking time for breaks as trainers
- Mateusz
- wondering if anyone has tried to have 2 whole-day breaks sandwiched between two days of workshop tome to allow participants time to process content
- Maneesha:
- trainers in AU experimenting with this extended workshop model
- 2 half-days each week for two weeks and
- a day's break between sessions
- they will be at the later call - worth looking out for their insights in that call or in the notes afterward to see what we can borrow
- workshop links (to add)

## Announcements
- Bilingual English/Spanish teaching demos needed.
- If you already have one on the schedule that still has space and are comfortable making it bilingual, please add a label (and contact anyone already signed up). https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos
- if you do not have one in the schedule yet but are keen to do this, reach out to Maneesha Sane (maneesha@carpentries.org) for upcoming ones (between now and mid-Feb), but for ones scheduled for later in the year, there will be an opportunity to fill out a form in February 2020.
- Teaching tips for Carpentries newsletters: suggestions invited!
- these will live in our fortnightly newsletter - Carpentries Clippings
- send to Karen Word and she will forward to Omar Khan who curates our newsletter
- Sarah: Sorry to backtrack but maybe we could collect these in a google form or github issue?
- Karen: Good idea! I will set something up and send it out to the group.
- Curriculum updates planned for Q1. Sandbox repository: https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training
- great place to see what Karen Word and others are working on in real time
- no radical changes will be made without discussion so everyone is privy to them / has opportunity to chime in on discussions around this
- Trainers Leadership self-nomination form is open through February 2 2021: https://forms.gle/aMoHYJLDUepDKaxM9
- this role will be a substitute for some of the other expectations as a Carpentries trainer
- opportunity to influence the direction that the Trainer community takes - you get to contribute to policy decisions
- Questions about Leadership/nominations/elections?
- Kari: can you briefly go over the roles and responsibilities of people in Trainer leadership?
- See https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/powers_responsibilities.md
- resource is being updated based on initial feedback - minor changes expected
- some of the responsibilities outlined can also be delegated to others in the Trainer community as needed
- one of the main challenges this group of Leaders will help address: need to figure out how to balance activities to cater to a global community - designing participation to include sync and async options
- please share additional questions in the Trainers Slack or via email to Karen Word and Kelly Barnes
- if your work is creating an environment where you can't commit to teaching instructor training workshops and running demo sessions etc, leadership can be something that can work for you and fit your circumstances. Karen and Kelly will work with you to accommodate your needs.

## Topic of the month: share your plans (local & global) for 2021
- Take 5 minutes to write about your local and global Carpentries plans for 2021 below. Bold your name if you would be willing to share verbally as well.
- Angelique van Rensburg - Regional - Instructor Training and Bonus Module workshops at CarpentryConnect South Africa 2021. Aiming at another instructor training event during 2021 as well. Global - teaching demo's and keep teaching instructor training
- Sarah Stevens - Hoping to run local instructor training twice this year. We have a a new trainer at our institution who is getting started so I'd like to teach with her. We'd like to host some of the same SWC/DC workshops we ran last year (~10-12) and pilot a couple of new lessons/workshops. Global - I'd like to keep teaching instructor training and hosting demos and discussions, get onboarded to the exec council, also work on maintaining/developing lessons and getting them to beta or maybe even stable ðŸ¤ž status
- Mateusz Kuzak: Super excited about our new regional coordinator based at the Netherlands eScience Center who willbe coming in soon. Looking forward to the Lesson Development Study Groups led by Toby, at the Centerwe plan to focus a lot on the new lesson development at the Center this year.
- that's exciting about the new regional coordinator!!! :D
- Christina: Sarah and I have grand plans for the Docker lesson! We want to move it to the next phase of development (maybe); we're meeting with the other maintainers in March (?) to discuss. I also want to do an open-to-the-community run of that lesson so more people can see it taught and ask questions/give us feedback. +1(Kate) I'm super interested in this too! I'm also maintaining another lesson + trying to find a sustainable rhythm of soliciting community involvement/doing my own judicious gardening. ;) For training: do my usual 2 trainings / several demos per year, hopefully review a lot of the upcoming changes to the material as I have time.
- lex: Local: hoping to give an online SWC Python workshop modelled after the CodeRefinery setup, with an 'Exercise Leader' (helper) for each (!) breakout room, allowing scaling up to quite large numbers of participants; also hoping we can return to in-person events after the summer: Globally: working with the rest of the Executive Council and Core Team to get us further along the plans we set out in our 3-5 year strategic plan. Oh, and working on helping to get one, perhaps even two new Lesson programs to move along the Lesson Program Incubation Process...
- Kate Hertweck - Local: build and grow the local instructor community, continue developing Carpentries-style lessons and expectations that new instructors follow these approaches as well. Global: teach at least two instructor training events, continue connecting with other biomedically-focused institutions with memberships, facilitate lesson development study groups
- Karen: I am really hoping to see this community develop with a new governance structure! Also very excited for curriculum updates. As we strive to meet our goals for growth in this program we will also be working more on assessment and reporting and I think that will offer some useful feedback to the community as well as informing our plans. Excited to see what Kelly does with this!
- Bianca: try to host teaching demos on a regular basis (once post-doc contract finishes in May) and do instructor training to complete checkout as an instructor trainer.
- Maneesha:
- Instructor training related: streamlining and improving our scheduling, tracking, and reporting systems for instructor training and memberships
- General Carpentries work: High priority on implementing security, privacy, compliance of all our systems and operations.  Also developing and sharing more data reports internally and externally to help us understand our impact and improve our work.
- Konrad:
- Local: Get more colleagues on the instructor track. Some of them started ~2 years ago with Carpentry workshops as learners an meanwhile became rather data literate.
- Global: Support the growth of our community by supporting local communities but maybe also further outreach and connections to upcoming initiatives
- Kelly: Global: I will be teaching my first workshop in March! I am looking forward to continuing to work on assessment including publishing a report on the Instructor Training Program. Local: I would love to get plugged into some local Carpentries work.
- first workshop, yay!!!
- Serah: finding partners and writing grant to support Carpentries IT and workshops in East and Central Europe - see https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/Ta6d0d54a1480b57f/looking-for-partners-google-org-impact-challenge
- Pao: Hosting Spanish demos and discussion sessions as needed and hopefully run an instructor training (or two? :) ) also in Spanish to help grow the Latinamerican community.
- Aleks: running instructor trainings nationally (UK) to support people not affiliated with Carpentries member organisations, initiating UK-wide commuity discussions and re-forming/re-booting UK workshop coordinator and facilitator group, provide community support for material develoment (lesson study group with Toby, Mateusz, Kate, Sarah, et al., more material development either myself or providing support to the others -  we are funding new stats and machine learning materials).
- Toby: (copied & pasted from zoom chat):  globally, building and engaging the carpentries curriculum (sub-)community. Also teaching instructor training and running teaching demos, of course! locally: I will be delighted if I can get the in-person meet-ups of Carpentries instructors in Heidelberg started again.

**Tips for keeping Carpentries work sustainable:**
1. Taking a break - first and foremost take care of yourself.
2. I found that if you announce you need a break, folks will step up to take over tasks temporarily, so be open about your need for a break
2. Systematically take on roles.
3. Regular recruitment, onboarding, offboarding, look for ways to mentor others, so when you step out of a role there is someone who could step in since they have been shadowing you.
4. From Christina: I do one Carpentries thing that's incorporated with my job (training) so I can do that on work time, and then I do one "extra" Carpentries thing on my own time (over the summer, CarpentryCon, now, lesson maintenence).

# Trainer Meeting January 21, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210121T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Masami (Post)
- Jeff Oliver (Post)
- Mike (pre)

**Others attending**
- Zac Painter
- Mark Crowe (QCIF)
- Mike Trizna
- Masami Yamaguchi
- Sarah Brown
- Sara King
- Trisha Adamus
- Kelly Barnes
- Tim Dennis
- Amanda Charbonneau
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Liz Stokes
- Angela Li (got the hour wrong, but wrote down my plans below)

Notetaker:


**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Pre and post workshop discussion
- Masami: bonus module
- expected 12, got only 5. When we went through a little background check we found people registered at local times that were unrealistic for them -- 12 AM or 1AM. We think they didn't check the local time. Maybe a reminder would be good to prevent this? We need some strategy to deal with this and feel sorry for waitlisted people. Happened also on the last one with Zac. Played 'zoom dj' role, 20 minutes activity was a good amount of time - 2 people discussing in one group. If you have really new-to-zoom people 20 minutes might not be enough. Interested to see our feedback. Darya might have more to say as she ran two together.
- Jeff: IT with Erin. Great event, good participation and engagement. 2 feedback items, one in the up down, a down answer was "there should be 3-4 of us", other feedback from Erin, section in episode 8 has a section on stereotype threat and the curriculum as written does all the things we aren't supposed to do (calls out women as being a stereotyped group)
- Mike: will be teaching 2 back to back because in-house training turns out to be scheduled around the same time. Looking forward to not having to prep so intensively for the second one. 2 different time structures, 2 full days vs 4 half days. Will be able to pretty closely compare.
- Found the 4-day schedule GitHub issue that Karen mentioned: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1177
- Mark L 4 half days means you have to miss more teaching so while appreciated the idea of half days this did make this less accessible for them.
- Options are good. Maye we don't do them all 4 days or all 2 days but offering both makes it best for everyone.

## Announcements:
- Liz shared https://www.esipfed.org/meeting-news/3-take-aways
- Bilingual English/Spanish teaching demos needed
- If you already have one on the schedule that still has space and are comfortable making it bilingual, please add a label (and contact anyone already signed up). https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos
- if you do not have one in the schedule yet but are keen to do this, reach out to Maneesha Sane (maneesha@carpentries.org) for upcoming ones (between now and mid-Feb), but for ones scheduled for later in the year, there will be an opportunity to fill out a form in February 2020.
- Teaching tips for Carpentries newsletters: suggestions invited! https://forms.gle/yu4GvotVd8cctCPc9
- Curriculum updates planned for Q1. Sandbox repository: https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training
- Trainers Leadership self-nomination form is open through February 2: https://forms.gle/aMoHYJLDUepDKaxM9
- Questions about Leadership/nominations/elections?

## Topic of the month

- Liz: Moar instructor training! Laying down more opportunities for people to get on the instructor track, and making it easier for instructors to meet and support each other, and support the check out process with progamming in local timezones. So yes - building the Aust community with Mark C and Sara! Looking forward to teaching my first instructor training too! Outside of trainer responsibilities, I'm planning on moving into a handover phase this year in co-hosting the Library Carpentry Advisory Group, so concentrating on wrapping up projects and refining our processes. The LC FAIR lesson has a lot of crossover with my ARDC work, so looking for opportunities to develop that lesson and put it to good use.
- Mark L. Work on visiabilty and communications as to what carpentries activities are being offered. Looking to engaging with new faculty hires and new graduate students where personal visits and opportunities to engage with the community have not been available. Reimaginging the research services offerings of the library and the role carpentries will have in that model. Finally, helping with faculty who are trying to "fliip" their teaching and possibly using more of our innstructor training slots as professional developemnt for faculty.
- Mark C: Host my first demo session, run my first instructor training workshop. Get lots of new instructors qualified in Queensland (target 20 for this year). Run probably 20 Carpentries workshops, mostly SWC R and Python, but I'm keen to start introducing some DC and LC that we've not really done much of before. Be actively involved in continuing to make the Australian Carpentries community fully integrated and working together.
- Sara: I'll be teaching my first instructor training workshop with a colleague (also my first Carpentries workshop in general) so I'd like to do that well. I'd also like to finish the workshop I have in the Lesson Incubator and get more skilled in GitHub. Separately, I'd like to get a project off the ground that was put on the back-burner in 2020 (creating a GitBook as part of a book sprint with a group of librarians that addresses digital skills of all kinds). I'd also like to create more content in the Carpentries style that is useful for my role and community.
- Zac: I know that I will be traveling, or in some state of transition, through the end of June at least (ASEE thinks they will have an in-person conference in July in Southern California, and they are - as polite as I can be - misguided). So I don't know how much I will be doing with training for the first half of the calendar year, and I imagine most of the goals I have for this group will be filled in the back half of the year. One exception; along with Mike Trizna, we may be doing some instructor training in a month or so for people interested in presenting about Artifical Intelligence in cultural heritage institutions - which will be fun! Can't wait!
- Mike: I plan on developing a few different lessons or workshops. I'm especially excited about the Lesson Development Study Group (https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/12/lesson-development-study-groups/) -- if I'm accepted. We're also planning to ramp up the Smithsonian's membership with the Carpentries (read the fine print at https://carpentries.org/membership/ about discounts for having a trainer on-staff) in the coming year in terms of number of instructors, workshops, and setting up for self-sustained communities at remote Smithsonian locations when online-only life phases out.
- Sarah: recruit co-maintainers for the incubator lesson that I started,  connect more with my local carpentries community to make it more formal and structured. Continue working in IT maintainenance
- Masami: Locally, I want to support QCIF/Australia instructor training. Globally, I want to make Japanese Carpentry community to deliver a workshop and grow a little bigger. Personally I want to learn more about how the Carpentries operates.
- Tim: First is a goal of reduction. I'm moving off LC advisory group, reducing maintainer role on 2 LC lessons and recruiting replacements for myself. This will free me up to better engage  as maintainer for instructor training lessons. I am also working with Toby Hodges to facilitate for the Lesson Dev Study Groups starting in Feb. I want to teach 2 instructor training workshops as well in 2021.
- Karen: I am really looking forward to getting to some of the goals that were displaced by the transition to online training last year! Curriculum updates front and center, Kelly's assessment projects are going to be really helpful not only for program growth but also community feedback and transparency. And creating structure for sponsored instuctor training events is going to help a lot of things!
- Amanda: I'm trying to build a carpentries stylei training program for the NIH Common Fund. We were about to start with some preliminary lessons when the pandemic hot, and it's required a lot of rewriting and replanning with my very small staff. So the goal for this year is to try to get closer to our goals for last year. For Carpentries specifically, I'm really just working to get back to my previous level of engagement.
- Jeff: Finish this grant application that includes a faculty professional development summer program that borrows (heavily) from Carpentries Instructor Training Curriculum. Maybe avoid double-booking instructor training and leading a teaching demo like I did last week. Finally, finish my Trainers Leadership self-nomination.
- Angela: Get back into leading teaching demos and plan for an instructor training in June or July 2020. I had to ease off Carpentries work a bit toward the end of last year so I'm hopeful that I'll return to contributing to the community regularly. Try to assess the Carpentries community at my new institution and consider how to introduce Data Carpentry workshops in my new research organization.
