# Trainer meeting, November 4, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211104T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
   - Nathaniel Porter https://christinalk.github.io/2021-11-01-ttt-online-CDT/
   - Jannetta Steyn: https://nwu-eresearch.github.io/2021-10-25-ttt-NWU-Online/

**Others attending**
- Aleks Nenadic
- Lieke de Boer
- Sarah Stevens
- Ben Chiewphasa
- Grace Fishbein
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Maneesha Sane
- Luis J. Villanueva
- Margareth Gfrerer
- Hao Ye (he/him)
- Angela Li (she/her)
- Trisha Adamus (she/her)
- Kelly Barnes (she/her)
- Kari L. Jordan (she/her)



Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
**Warmup Question: feelings about migrating Topicbox list to Discourse (https://forum.carpentries.org/)?**
- Think about ease of access, bandwidth, accessibility
Is there a slack integration? https://www.discourse.org/integrations

## Pre and post workshop discussion
**Nathaniel & Christina.**
- Went well, new lessons. Main glitch was that at one point a link pointed to the old lessons and got confusing for people who were following along.
- Question of how to deal with teaching something you are not an expert in. Sometimes we are called upon as Instructors to teach git even though it isn't something I regularly use. How does that impact our instruction?
- Mark +1 trying to stop using the same people to teach certain topics. How do we encourage other local instructors who may not use R regularly and don't feel super comfortable teaching it. Would be good to address this more in instructor training to set the table for further down the road when this comes up.
- Sarah S: co-teaching can be a solution. Often helpers or co-instructors may have more experience, can lean on their experience and build opportunities for them to share their experience into my teaching. Encouraging people to teach things they have never taught - we are there, you can meet with someone who has taught this before
- Nathaniel: also lean on co teaching, gone as far as to do centrally organized workshops when we teach a workshop for the first time to get experienced instructors. That isn't always available. Branching out into new areas, when core group needs a break you need to be able to get new people in.
- lots of recruitment, encouragement, follow-up
- Issue of what mental consequences are for dealing with errors for a novice vs expert. Feeling of overwhelm as a novice when you encounter errors.
- Doing it again in a couple of weeks!
- was caught off guard by some changes to the ways activities were structured. Will sit down and make sure I have thought through how much we are going to use the etherpad vs discuss in real time. Sometimes you have different groups that demand different strategies.
- Janetta: everything that could go wrong did. Was not there Monday because of another workshop. Monday there were 4 participants, one left, 2 did not have microphones. Only one person left by Tuesday. Also very first Instructor Training workshop. Martin was very supportive, wanted to offer the opportunity to teach and feel more comfortable. Thought I'd be less nervous with only one person, but not really.

## Announcements
- Quarterly signups are now open! Please complete availability forms by November 19. If you are not available or are not sure, please use the form to say so.
- Reviewers needed to evaluate Trainer applications week of December 3. Conflicts of interest ok (local applications will be removed from your anonymized spreadsheet).
- Executive Council Elections are open!
- The curriculum update has been merged!
- Topic of the month: Notetaking practices!
- Currently: Notes are archived on GitHub, creating a permanent record of meetings. We have no particular guidelines for taking notes. Minimal processing in transfer. Example: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/minutes/2021-08-05.md
- Previously discussed (context: "discussion" and "business" meetings alternated on 2x/month schedule):
- https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/minutes/2019-09-05-trainers.md
- Question: is the status quo still acceptable? Do we need policy regarding notification of new Trainers/ reminder of continuing Trainers that notes are archived? Do we need procedures for requesting redaction or change?
- Kari: when it comes to notes or recorded minutes, what should be recorded is if there are concrete decisions, follow up, action items that need to be taken to other parties. We don't really have a secretary. In other meetings where there is a secretary, they synthesize information and pull out what was decided, not so much who said what.
- Mark: Second what Kari was talking about. Don't go into minutiae. Further research or discussion on a topic is not attached to an individual. What you want to provide for readers is if there is a consensus, or if there is a disagreement what are the different sides that need to be discussed further. Instructor feedback is definitely sensitive. Don't want that kind of thing on the record. Maybe just record that ___ presented on post or pre, but not the details.
- Luis: it would be good to make it clearer, or try to define better if it is going to be notes or minutes. Would be more helpful in thinking about this better. Always go for transparency and open. For now having the person transferring the notes exercise some judgement and remove things that seem sensitive. Lessons learned should be kept. Will also help the next round of people joining.
- Mark: having two meetings with the same agenda... sometimes two meetings go differently. More ideas can come out when the second meeting moves on. Maybe moving to GitHub could be more streamlined with fewer details. There is a reason why we were wordy to begin with
- Luis: time and effort does matter.

# Trainer Meeting November 4, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211104T22

**Training discussion (pre and post):**
- Christina Koch
- Ariel Deardorff


**Others attending**
- Karen Word
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton
- Zac Painter
- Jeff Oliver (he/him) University of Arizona
- Kelly Barnes (she/her)
- Ariel Deardorff (she/her) University of California, San Francisco
- Sara King (she/her) AARNet (Australia)
- Masami Yamaguchi (she/her) Griffith University
- Sarah Brown
- Liz Stokes (she/they) ARDC (Sydney)
- Mark Crowe (he/him) QCIF (Brisbane)



Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
**Warmup Question: feelings about migrating Topicbox list to Discourse?**
- collapse the platforms
- be clear about their purpose
- whatever we choose, think about the conventions we need. behavior is make or break.
- BBS Addition: "Let's make sure we don't lose the archives -- keeping our instutional memory intact is important. So if we go to one platform, make sure we can migrate the old stuff off the other. "+1
- Also, just thinking about a comment made: "Slack isn't great for archiving conversations" -- there is an opportunity here where we can also set up a bot or something to archive slack convos that we want to preserve to the platform we choose. The point here should be continuity-of-knowledge ... emails are easy.
- Pre and post workshop discussion
- Christina: did 2 trainings since last meeting. 1 at Madison, one with Nathaniel. Recent one went really well, group was so engaged. So astonishing for 2 days on Zoom. Breakouts really popular. Intentionally tried to do a few more things with breakouts because it was a larger group and because people seemed to really like that opportunity. Day 1 no strong protocol for handraising. Missed a few people. Day 2 tried raising hands, think we heard from everyone by the middle of the day. More evidence that this helps.
- Working with your Team reordered a lot so that it flowed better. Broke into classroom tools and practices with sticky situations, then work with your team why we co-teach, exercise about coordinating feels a little vague. Turned it back into do's and don'ts which that activity originally had. Couldn't tell if it was more about logistics planning.
- New EIA section with local training, had a hard time with it. Don't have any good suggestions except potentially hiring a consultant who specializes who can tell us more about what we should and shouldn't cover. People with intersectional/marginalized identities may have more to say. Hard to apply as is. Certain things we don't deal with directly and we should either talk about them or not.
- Mark: taught this episode back in June/July. Also felt uncomfortable teaching it. Reaction from learners was that they really liked and appreciated it.
- Sarah B: similar experience in that trainees had great feedback. How much of this is developing material vs getting more training for Trainers? None of this was covered in Trainer training, so as a group we haven't engaged with this, so maybe space for more training would help us all to feel more comfortable with this.
- Ariel: workshop 2-3 weeks ago taught same topic and felt since we had done it since June saw more things I liked that tied things to how we implement it. Some of the issues still struggling with don't quite do that yet -- stereotypes feel disconnected still. Agree that I want to know more about universal design. Seems key in values and action but not quite enough to feel like an expert. Need more context.
- Christina: this captures my struggle. Flow -- idea, how we use it. Idea, how we use it. Accessibilty is very applicable. Inclusivity talk about code of conduct. There was enough verbiage about equity but no actionable principle. We should be clear about the goals of this section, an activity that confirms the goal.
- Sarah B: summer before teaching was in book club on equitable teaching practices. In that book a lot of the same teaching practices that we use. Probably filled in that gap myself. So just focusing on evidence-based practices IS focusing on equity becaues it allows for past experiences etc. We pitch them throughout
- Ariel:
- Struggled with How We Operate, lots and lots of links. Seemed like sharing my screen was a good idea. Felt like sharing a lot of details without resources.
- Christina: feedback that something to look at would be helpful. Had some slides for a few sections, Etherpad, Lesson. Also felt like I talked a lot during that section. Tried to strategize how to motivate, Q&A, back and forth. At the end more about how you want to be involved, had them vote and focus on those things. It's hard!
- Ariel: After accessibility and unversal design, this episode felt kind of weird. Lack of visuals was hard. Have used slides in the past, some like and some don't.
- Maybe a couple more diagrams (self vs centrally organised workshops?)
- Christina has a stock set of slides, used some of those to explain "what are the
- checkout section always takes longer. Whole thing is 30 minutes, took us 1.5 hours.
- Christina 45-50 minutes.
- Liz: CarpentryConnect Australia had a small sesson on what makes a good lesson contribution. Damien Irving put together a short rundown of recommendations about what makes a good contribution. A short resource we can point to may help anticipate some of the questions that trainees have when they feel anxiety around this checkout step. Doesn't say much more than what already exists, but puts things in one place.
- https://github.com/DamienIrving/teaching/blob/master/carpentries_connect_2021.md

## Announcements
- Quarterly signups are now open! Please complete availability forms by November 19. If you are not available or are not sure, please use the form to say so. https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/trainers/Tfef8659ac0e8c045/q1-2022-signups-and-availability-form
- Reviewers needed to evaluate Trainer applications week of December 3. Conflicts of interest ok (local applications will be removed from your anonymized spreadsheet).
- Executive Council Elections are open!
- The curriculum update has been merged! Yay!+1!
- Topic of the month: Notetaking practices!
- Currently: Notes are archived on GitHub, creating a permanent record of meetings. We have no particular guidelines for taking notes. Minimal processing in transfer. Example: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/minutes/2021-08-05.md
- Previously discussed (context: "discussion" and "business" meetings alternated on 2x/month schedule):
- https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/minutes/2019-09-05-trainers.md
- Question: is the status quo still acceptable? Do we need policy regarding notification of new Trainers/ reminder of continuing Trainers that notes are archived? Do we need procedures for requesting redaction or change?
- How do we know where to find notes? Listed at the top of this page...
- Do we want people to not be named? Do we need to redact anything? We don't discuss applicants -- for Leadership we decided if we discussed community members we would not include that in the minutes. People should know if their comments are being attribute to them publicly
- Can we have an opt-out for names?
- Etherpad is not redacted in anyway. Goes back months if not years. If we change what we do on GitHub, do we need to change Etherpad?
- It's useful to retain names. Archiving notes on GitHub is great, Etherpad could fall apart at any time. Don't think that our discussions typically move into dodgy territory where we would need to be careful what we say. Maybe useful to acknoweldge that generally knowing that we have this archiving of the minutes... we do make jokes but we don't generally name people anyway.
- We could ask to accept last meeting's minutes
- BBS: "Is it worth making approving minutes part of these meetings? Just in the normal formulaic sense, but by saying "does anyone object to the last meeting's minutes?" means that they're present-in-our-mind?"
- Sara: thinking more long-term. Retention and disposal type schedule, not keeping everyting in perpetuity forever. Does The Carpentries have any policies on retention for any of the material?
- Repo currently goes back to 2016: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/tree/main/minutes
- but github is forever-ish
- Do we need to think about incorporating chat? Lots of conversations going on over there, have to think about including that if it's an accurate representation of the meeting
- Kelly: sense earlier was that people were more interested in a broad record of decisions madem, not having everything verbatim
- Liz: most important things are decisions. Don't think we need to record the chat, except for the anthropologists of the future.
- Sarah(chat): I think pulling major points from the chat, for things that need to be archived (eg also resources) makes sense, but when the chat is side conversation we don’t need it?
- Mark: sometimes useful links end up in the chat.
- We will be using our second meeting this month! We will be talking about maintenance things with the curriculum . If you have any thoughts... how we maintain the curriculum, list of episodes for checkout, etc. Feedback on those kinds of issues

Upcoming meetings:
- November 18: Community Support Roles & Trainers Leadership
- December 2: Danielle Sieh answers Workshops FAQ

Sandbox for questions to be discussed at 2nd November Trainer meeting:
- Curriculum Maintenance: what is a major update? what kinds of changes should always be discussed with the community?
