# Trainer meeting, 18 November 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211118T14


**Attending**
- Mateusz Kuzak (he, him, his), the Netherlands eScience Center
- Kelly Barnes, she / her, The Carpentries
- Jake Szamosi, McMaster University
- Aleks Nenadic, she/her, Software Sustainability Institute, UK
- Kari L. Jordan, she/her, The Carpentries
- Jannetta Steyn, she/her, Newcastle University
- Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison
- Amanda Charbonneau (she/her), University of California
- Luis J. Villanueva (he/him), Smithsonian
- Grace Fishbein (she/her), ACENET, Newfoundland, Canada
- Sarah Brown (she/her), Univeristy of Rhode Island
- Nathaniel Porter (he/him) Virginia Tech
- Karen Word (she/her) The Carpentries
- Trisha Adamus (she/her), University of Wisconsin - Madison
- Margareth Gfrerer, Higher Education Strategy Center - Addis Ababa

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room

Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Announcements:
- Trainers Leadership self-nominations will open soon! New Trainers, seasoned Trainers, and everyone in between is encouraged to consider running. Service in this role can replace (rather than adding to) other Trainer duties during the year of service. Nomination period will run through Jan 18, with Trainer meeting Jan 20 to meet the candidates. Please comment here if that schedule presents challenges specific to your region.
- Communications updates. You may notice new template emails and other changes to the flow of information related to Instructor Training. We hope this makes your trainees' experience better, with fewer missed/mis-communications! Please use the most recent version of the workshop website & etherpad templates. Surveys have migrated, and Surveymonkey links will no longer work.
- Reviewers needed to score Trainer applications December 3-6. Scoring involves individually scoring 5 open-ended questions as well as assigning an overall subjective score and comments on the full application. Full applications are anonymized with co-located applicants removed. Reviewers are also given a separate list of names to share comments on known applicants. Last time we received just under 40 applications. Please contact Karen and indicate whether you plan to review some or all applications.
- Blog post about curriculum updates will go out next week
- Q1 scheduling form closes tomorrow!
- IT events and bonus modules: https://forms.gle/wtSSWuguPWgNHuYm8
- Demos: https://calendly.com/thecarpentries
- Update re certification renewal/trainer agreement: Leadership is in the process of establishing a new timeline for community approval and implementation. Ratification will likely be combined with Leadership elections in early 2022, with implementation date TBD thereafter.
- (late notification) Trainer leadership report to the EC: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2021-09-leadership-to-ec.md

## Today's topic! Policies re checkout and curriculum
**Curriculum maintence chat!**
Q1: How much should the Trainers Leadership just *do* without asking for input from Trainers?
- Do you want to participate in doing work/committee/drafting things?
- Do you want to just have things occur without having to care?
- Do you want to have us do things and then make it an RFC or poll?
- Other options?

For this update the process was:
- IT maintainers (Sarah Brown, Tim Dennis & Karen Word) triaged all issues, made rough plan
- Leaderhip was elected
- Update work done
- Lessons were test run several times and updated for feedback
- update process & review documented: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/141
- trainer leadership approved the process
- PR merged

- (whoops, notetaking fail)
- Amanda: there was testing for the curriculum
- Karen: yes, but response to feedback received less testing/scrutiny
- Aleks: were there points where Leadership or Maintainers felt that there was inadequate attention or that they couldn't move on without getting more feedback?
- Sarah B: there was a point where we did reach out to the community about something and didn't get feedback, so we decided to use a second Trainer meeting to address it. So that has been our solution. If people don't like that, they can say so. Not anything we felt we couldn't do. There were points that we said we would just do something and change if people didn't like it. We never want to say people are stuck with something forever.
- Goal for this meeting is to gather input to shape final policy for maintaining IT curriculum. Will talk about checkout in a bit. Goal is to get input down now and shape those policies so the whole community knows what we are doing, what Leadership will act on by themselves and what community will have oversight on. This is the first time we have had an elected panel, so before we do things and get terrible reactions or get stuck, we want things to be transparent.
- Jake: only became a Trainer after the process was mostly done. Really liked using 2nd Trainer meeting to get feedback. Very hard to find time to respond async to an email request.
- Kari: This goes back to question from the beginning (speaking as Trainer and not ED) knowing what the purpose of the Leadership group is -- if the purpose is governance in specific ways, I will trust what you all are doing, will share feedback and trust that it has been listened to. Impossible to take everyone's feedback and apply every thing all the time. Synthesis of Trainer sentiment is why you all were elected. If there's general consensus about what the aim of the group is, I trust that you are working behind the scenes to incorporate feedback. Second using Trainer meeting. Much easier than having to remember to attend to feedback async.
- Jake: note this feedback is coming from people who are at the meeting!
- Are there specific types of changes that should be discussed in a trainer meeting rather than handled by maintainers?
- Kari: good question, want to hear feedback. Hear a lot from workshop admin team that once Instructors go through training there is info about preparing for Workshops, but if there is a way to discuss more CO workshops specifically, we don't push this specifically. Because this is a challenge, we could include more info to promote this -- this could be something brought to the group to discuss.
- Sarah Stevens: For me changes in checkout requirements and addition or removal of whole episodes seem like things I'd like the community to discuss. & Trainer renewal
- Jake: my workflow for preparing to teach is that I don't look that far in advance. Maybe a week or 2. Any changes that influence how I prepare I want to be very notified on. Don't want things coming in at the last minute. New technology, procedural, logistcal etc.
- Amanda: If we change something like not using Etherpad anymore, is that a thing you want us to send out a notification that it happened, or do you want us to warn that we are thinking of changing this before it is changed? Do you want input or notification?
- Jake: Just want to know. Choosing not to be on maintainer team on purpose. That work seems hard.
- Sarah B: are there content changes you would want the opportunity to object to, or is it just a matter of notification?
- Jake: if you're going to remove a whole chunk. If we suddenly aren't going to talk about motivation.
- Sarah S: if Leadership team or Maintainers disagree or find somethign controversial. If everyone agrees, it seems ok. Last time we discussed switching to the forum. Wasn't that important to me, probably ok to be notified.
- Aleks: sometimes I get firmer opinion after teaching. We may say one thing before we teach during feedback, but after teaching it becomes more clear... but then it has to go through another round.
- Sarah B: we could operationalize as needing certain number of people to teach before finalizing.
- Checkout! We currently dont' have a clear process for changing checkout policy. Leadership wants to write how this is changed. Just us doing it or community feedback process. Explicitly outsourcing maintenance. Curriculum team has great knowledge of the curriculum so they will do most of it, but if we want to start in the middle of episodes (making more episodes available) they will not do that on their own. For checkout requirements do you want to have oversight? Last time the entire community was given the opportunity to vote on whether change should happen. Should Leadership just decide?
- Kari: Even if we empowered leadership panel, you would have incorporated feedback, right?
- Jake: what would feedback look like? Vote between choices? or we are seeing this problem we are looking for solutions?
- Sarah B: any of the above
- Jake: would definitely like vote between choices. Not super likely to participate in process of develooping them.
- Amanda: one thing I think I'm hearing is that a thing that would be really good to set up would be a well-advertised suggestions box. Taught episode and hate a thing and want it changed, or want to add things to checkout, want to drop feedback without being in a meeting, so that when we are writing the policy... right now we have a list of things people didn't like for some reason but we don't have a lot of documentation of problems.
- Mateusz: good idea to keep track of suggestions so we know that when changes are made we know where they come from. When changes are made, I don't necessarily disagree but I may wonder where it comes from. It would be easier to accept changes knowing where these things come from.
- Karen: Github issues are a thing but there are many other ways that we get feedback.
- Jake: assume you are probably keeping a list? Does it make sense to keep a list of things that are publicly visible? Creating issues for things that come up in other ways.
- Sarah B: there have been times that I have created issues for things that came up during conversation. Kelly and Karen could be more consistent about doing this. Technically minutes are all there, but it's a lot to go back and reread them.
- Amanda: I like github issues. A lot of people aren't super into github or notifications. Don't want to add more tech but maybe it would be more helpful if we had something like an easyretro board where people can dump ideas, stages, things we don't care about now, things that are actively in progress, could be a central board to let people know what's going on. GitHub has a similar thing projects that are harder to comment on
- Sarah B: Github just updated projects, so want to see what is available now
- Sarah B: someone said they often forget to make PRs after teaching. If we had a way of lowering the burden after teaching
- Amanda: maybe the attendance form? Like demos form? things we already collect, then could be dumped together
- Karen: definitely would be better to have somethign that isn't an email
- Aleks: recent feedback from participants we put in a templated format could be automatically extracted. if files followed the same format we could automate and decide what to do with the information
- Sarah B: Github API is friendly to structured data
- Mateusz: debriefing document, then document handy while teaching, then debriefing meeting to structure going through document. Things to change next time, things to direct to curriculum. If we could put this document in the workshop template people could use it during the workshop which is easier than having to recall after.
- Aleks: maybe in the workshop template repo
- Sarah B: any final thoughts to share?
- OK sounds like takeaway is that community wants us to bring mostly baked ideas to the community for consideration. Definitely use Trainer meetings rather than lots of emails. And getting to feedback right after you teach rather than letting it linger is good. Is that a fair summary?




# Trainer Meeting 18 November 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20211118T22

**Attending**
- Jeff Oliver, he / him, Tucson, Arizona
- Kelly Barnes, she / her, The Carpentries
- Zac Painter, Stanford
- Yani Bellini Saibene, she / her, INTA-UNAB-MetaDocencia
 - Ariel Deardorff, she/her, UC San Francisco
- Mark Laufersweiler , he/him, Univ Oklahoma Libraries
 - Kate Hertweck, perceived pronouns, Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (Seattle, WA)
 - Masami Yamaguchi, she/her, Brisbane, QLD, Australia
 - Amanda Charbonneau, she/her, UC Davis
 - Murray Cadzow, he/him, University of Otago
- Pao Corrales, she/her, UBA
- Megan Guidry, she/ her, New Zealand eScience Infrastructure
- Angela Li, she/her, Princeton, NJ
- Sara King, she/her, AARNet
- Rainier Barrett, he/him, Boise State University, Boise, ID, USA
- Tim Dennis, he/him, UCLA, LA
- Mark Crowe, he/him, QCIF Queensland




Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room and enable waiting room


Notetaker:

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Announcements
- Trainers Leadership self-nominations will open soon! New Trainers, seasoned Trainers, and everyone in between is encouraged to consider running. Service in this role can replace (rather than adding to) other Trainer duties during the year of service. Nomination period will run through Jan 18, with Trainer meeting Jan 20 to meet the candidates. Please comment here if that schedule presents challenges specific to your region.
- Communications updates. You may notice new template emails and other changes to the flow of information related to Instructor Training. We hope this makes your trainees' experience better, with fewer missed/mis-communications! Please use the most recent version of the workshop website & etherpad templates. Surveys have migrated, and Surveymonkey links will no longer work.
- Reviewers needed to score Trainer applications December 3-6. Scoring involves individually scoring 5 open-ended questions as well as assigning an overall subjective score and comments on the full application. Full applications are anonymized with co-located applicants removed. Reviewers are also given a separate list of names to share comments on known applicants. Last time we received just under 40 applications. Please contact Karen and indicate whether you plan to review some or all applications.
- Encouraging someone to apply? Blog post here: https://carpentries.org/blog/2021/11/Trainer-Training-open/
- Blog post about curriculum updates will go out next week
- Trainer leadership report to the EC: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2021-09-leadership-to-ec.md
- Update re certification renewal/trainer agreement: Leadership is in the process of establishing a new timeline for community approval and implementation. Ratification will likely be combined with Leadership elections in early 2022, with implementation date TBD thereafter.
- Q1 scheduling form closes tomorrow!
- IT events and bonus modules: https://forms.gle/wtSSWuguPWgNHuYm8
- Demos: https://calendly.com/thecarpentries

## Today's topic! Policies re curriculum and checkout
Leadership reps: Mark, Jeff, Amanda.

**Curriculum maintence chat!**
Q1: How much should the Trainers Leadership just *do* without asking for input from Trainers?
- Do you want to participate in doing work/committee/drafting things?
- Do you want to just have things occur without having to care? XXXXXXX
- Do you want to have us do things and then make it an RFC or poll?XXX
- Other options?

- I like something between fully hands-off and comment requests. I don't think we need to have a poll for every change but I liked getting the broad strokes update and a chance to offer feedback.

For this update the process was:
- IT maintainers (Sarah Brown, Tim Dennis & Karen Word) triaged all issues, made rough plan
- Leadership was elected
- Update work done
- Lessons were test run several times and updated for feedback
- update process & review documented: https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/141
- trainer leadership approved the process
- PR merged


- Trainers leadership is new! We keep facing the question of how much we should be 'just doing' and how much we should be asking for feedback as we are doing things, what things general membership would like to vote on etc. What level of interaction and communication Trainers are most comfortable with.
- Do you want to actively draft things, be on committees, be directed, or would you like things to just happen without having to worry about it? Do you want us to create proposals and poll you? Concrete example: curriculum update. We did an update recently. on 196 above the process for applying the changes.
- Zac: general frustration about governance in California: don't like being asked to vote on things after voting for reps! But ok with how Trainers Leadership went through this change.
- Amanda: Are there specific kinds of changes you would like to see discussed in a Trainer meeting vs just handled?
- Rainier: Hard to draw a line between stuff I want to hear about and stuff I want to have a say in. rewording, order changes etc. we trust. But that big change to a lot of the curriculum I think it is nice to have the opportunity to have input. Quantifying the cutoff is tricky.
- Murray: structural changes or substantial content alterations would be good for input
- Amanda: related question -- checkout. Some folks have suggested changes to how checkout works. For things like policies around how you become a Trainer or how you become an Instructor -- is that something you'd like to give feedback on?
- Ariel: still a matter of scale. Minor tweaks ok, but major changes we should consult.
- Kate: in the general realm of governance this group is really unique in that we meet 1-2x monthly anyway. There are certain lines of communication that make it easy to stay up to date. The main thing is being aware that changes are occurring. In cses where there are potential impacts on equity or people that will be impact. This requires awareness and forethought. Maybe not input from the entire group, although offering the opportunity is good -- it is hard to anticipate what effect things might have for people in different circumstances. Most of us are fairly agnostic re curriculum changes. It's more important in many cases to expedite the process than make sure everyone is comfortable. Even with this group it is hard to get input. With policy changes don't know what the compostiion of the leadership group will be but asking for help from folks at different instituions might be a substitute for pinging the entire group. Opportunity to voice concern when something isn't working might be more effective especially given how cohesive we are. It's hard to go that route, just break it and wait for people to complain, but it could work here. Have had this converation in a few places recently. I'm ok with letting go of some things if they move more smoothly.
- Amanda: For things where we do want feedback, what is the best way to do that? Monthly meeting? Async?
- Mark: not a fan of email missives. Use second meeting to bring up topics. Feel free to do a subpoll across geographies. I tend to change my thinking in a live conversation.  Maybe if something is a hot button issue you try a subpoll and if it looks like a major issue you bring it to the bigger group.
- Angela: I would love it decisions/any brainpower you require from us could be tied to these meetings, since that’s the time I’ve allocated every month for this (i.e. announced at one meeting, deadline is the next monthly meeting)
- Yani (she/her) to Everyone (5:36 PM)
- +1 to Angela
- Murray Cadzow to Everyone (5:36 PM)
- +1
- Kate Hertweck to Everyone (5:36 PM)
- Yes to meetings
- Rainier Barrett (he/him) to Everyone (5:37 PM)
- That works for me too! Schedule wizardry is hard
- Mark Crowe to Everyone (5:37 PM)
- But maybe info provided in advance so people can have time to consider before the discussion
- Yani (she/her) to Everyone (5:37 PM)
- +1 to info in advance
- +1 I would love a very short memo / one-pager to review (I would even look at it during icebreakers 😛)
- Yani: I want more lesson in my language, the we can think about starting point ;-)
- Me to Everyone (5:44 PM)
- thats very fair Yani
- Karen Word (she/her) to Everyone (5:45 PM)
- Determining priorities for where we recruit effort
- Ariel Deardorff  (she/her) to Everyone (5:45 PM)
- Rather than a new committee could we just have more update sprints? That way people who have time could help and get it done
- Ariel: we have been thinking about LC lessons and wanting more start points. This is just something that can be sat down and done in a short burst not through a committee
- Mark: LC new lessons create trouble for start points. New cohorts coming through with those new lessons. As lessons leave the incubator and go into acceptance modes we do those in sprints. Can we use LC for checkout? If the Trainer is agreeable to having a test run. Has to have live coding, not a setup, has to have some pedagogy.  Maybe we could have some policies around choosing start points for these. Maybe ask learners who want to checkout on it and give them slightly more lead time. LC has a ton of new lessons coming out of the incubator, and about half of recent trainings.
- Murray: if we limited start points to 2-3 per lesson, this would take away the range of effort needed to prepare and also enable them all to be targeted for translation. Instead of having a ton of starting points for some lessons and only 1 for other lessons.

META QUESTION: if we do Murray's suggestion, would you have still liked to have had this conversation? Or would you have liked it just happened?
- This seems like a larger structural change and so should have conversation
- I would be fine with them making this kind of decision and then getting help with the implementation preferably via sprints 🙂
