
# Trainer meeting, February 18, 2021  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210218T14

ELECTIONS: document for asynchronous responses of additional nominees:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c30tOoAbhKC8P2zXT1vKG5Bqa0bPGO68bWpCTyE3b2o/edit?usp=sharing

**Attending**
- Kari
- Kelly Barnes, she/her, kbarnes@carpentries.org
- Margareth Gfrerer, margareth.gfrerer@gmx.net
- Luca Di Stasio, he/him, luca.distasio@gmail.com
- Lex Nederbragt, he/him, lex.nederbragt@ibv.uio.no
- Sarah Stevens, she/her/hers, sarah.stevens@wisc.edu
- Aleksandra Nenadic / she, her / a.nenadic@manchester.ac.uk
- Angelique van Rensburg, she/her, angelique@carpentries.org
- Maneesha Sane, maneesha@carpentries.org
- Konrad FÃ¶rstner, he/him foerstner@zbmed.de,
- Evgenij Belikov, he/him, e.belikov@epcc.ed.ac.uk
- Toby Hodges, he/him, tobyhodges@carpentries.org
- Sarah Brown, she/her, smb@sarahmbrown.org
- Allegra Via, she/her, allegra.via@gmail.com
- Karen Word, she/her, krword@carpentries.org

**Notetaker:**

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
Name, Where you are located, and How far do you currently live from where you were born?
## Announcements
- Please remember to submit your availability form, even if you are not available! https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/trainers/Tfe01ffbfb70596e6/scheduling-the-carpentries-instructor-trainings-bonus-modules-and-teaching-demos-2021-q2
- Spanish/Bilingual demos needed in April. Please indicate in Calendly comments if you can host a demo in Spanish.
- Trainers Leadership Elections
- Timeline: elections first, then approval
- -should get an email today when voting opens!
- Nominees! https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/Nominees2021.md
- What questions do you have?
- Kari: leading a mentoring group this round. Group of Carpentries Instructors who have not taught and do not plan to teach soon. They took Instructor Training and love The Carpentries and are using what they have learned in their day-to-day work. Would love to hear from candidates and anyone what we can do to applaud that but also stress that we need people to teach for us! Thoughts?
- Sarah B: I also do that! I taught my whole semester course and haven't taught a Carpentries workshop in a while (I have done Instructor Training). I can relate! We can applaud people to be able to do both. Maybe we can consider some more flexibile scheduling around workshops, to allow people who can drop in for a few hours or be a helper. This could support people who do have time but not as much confidence. Related point on the Trainer side, with new Trainers who are hesitant or thinking about stepping back, emphasizing bonus modules as another way of getting involved. The more variety we have in the ways of getting involved the easier it is for people.
- SB additional idea: we can also ask people to be ambassadors, eg ask their trainees to certify & teach
- Luca D: 2 points. 1 how to acknowledge. Maybe we can recognize that we not only teach technical stuff but also teach pedagogy. We teach this to Instructors through the format of the workshop, maybe we provide certificates to give them a way to show that what they are doing, they learned from us. This is something we are still forgetful that we really are strong on the pedagogy. On the practical side, there are many possible suggestions. The point is always when people need to volunteer their time it is always complicated to find the time. You need to provide something, not in return, but something they can sell in their main job. In europe teaching positions are always related to some kind of certification where teaching hours are recordedand count towards certification. Maybe providing some certification ourselves that they can show for their main job.
- Kelly: what challenges and opportunities would you like to see the new leadership address in this first year?
- Luca D: My feeling is that Trainers are not a new thing, but Trainer Leadership is - it is a blue ocean, everything to do! A challenge and opportunity. Only a year, have to focus on something. Opportunity is getting to frame how the pedagogical side of the carpentries can evolve and grow in the coming few years. In that, everything that entails like retention of Instructors, pedagogy, how to organize the Trainers, work with feedback.
- Sarah B: I have a different point of view having served on the provisional panel invited to start this. Want to address the governance. As Trainers the more we can support Core Team in being free to make decisions the more they can do for us. This will help solidify and create space to do more fun stuff. A lot of the way we do the basics is designed around unanimous consensus, which was tractable when we had a smaller community. Now we need more structure and process for what is good enough and what is not. A structure that helps us operate in our current size. We have to have a Trainer Agreement & other documentation for things to function. If we can make those transparent and clear and no one has to worry about them they just happen, then we can really focus on those other things like pedagogy and what we want to do.
- Kari: What kinds of accessibility questions are we asking, not only in the process of teaching Instructor Training but also for the Trainers themselves? We have Trainers from all over the world, but is everyone able to teach, does everyone have the tools that they need. Have we looked at accessibility for Trainers themselves and are there opportunities to improve that?
- Karen: We have lost trainers due to internet challenges. This is a major problem
- Sarah B: In many internet conferences we have been able to give people data grants. Cheaper than travel grants! Budgeting different on The Carpentries side, but we could do this for Trainers e.g. Another dimension is creating more opportunities for asynchronous participation. Curriculum maintenance is not always super straightforward (GitHub!) but if we can welcome people there better they can engage at least until we can teach in person again.
- Toby: Live transcripts of video calls can make a big difference. A lot of the technology being used is probably unfamiliar to our audience - technical workshops too. And in a bit of a hurry we can talk too fast - also technical workshops. Plug-ins can generate audio transcripts from Zoom, they cost money and we may not have that money to spend for all our workshops. Strongly in favor of investigating that.
- Shared by Sarah B:
- https://otter.ai/u/g26BNQz64kOJSs_bSp-bLDYcI4Q
- https://webcaptioner.com/
- Maneesha: we have looked at otter but financial costs and maintenance costs would have to be considered. All Zoom rooms have human closed captioning, but requires a dedicated human to do just that.
- Luca: Related to what Toby said, very good point, if the problem is language why not push on translation and providing local communities, workshops in local languages. Do we want to do everything in English with subtitles or fully internationalized? We have Code of Conduct support... do we need to have other ways to reach out and ask for help?
- Kelly: Right now people could put an issue in our repos, but maybe an easier way to report an accessibility issue would be a really good idea.
- Lex: 3 years on EC it took us some time, the second EC worked on mission and vision and a strategic plan. Maybe a mission and vision -- what is this community actually about? Strength/weakness opportunity analysis. What shouldn't we change? Where do we want to be in 5 years? How many Trainers, how active? Make a plan, how do we get there? And develop a strategic plan that is collaboratively developed with the EC. Maybe not achievable in the first year, but maybe first year, year and a half. That would be my wish for this group.
- Kari: Trainer Agreement. Conversations with regional coordinators hearing that there is still some confusion or reluctance about the Trainer Agreement. Would love to see the Trainers Leadership either hold some kind of forum about the Agreement to make sure everyone's views have been shared. I know we have discussed this. Have all active Trainers been able to share their perspective? (Answer may be yes, but would like Leadership to review this.) How to make it successful and not burdensome for people.
- Sarah B: Want to push back on Lex's request that this group create a vision. EC has to provide a single vision for the whole group. We can contribute and frame our own, but if this group  creates our own strategic vision that is different from the EC, how are Kelly and Karen going to respond to our differing visions. Anything we do has to be a part of and incorporated into what the EC is doing. We have to be going in the same direction. It isn't practical for us to create a vision and either go up against the EC or discover that we don't have funding for what we want to do. We love consensus but we also need focus.
- Similar vein, Trainer Agreement, we tried to create space for people to air concerns. We might have had too many places such that people didn't know where to put them and they didn't all get aired! The governance and the policies are going to be what gets us out of these cyclical confusion points. If we make transparent the process by which the Agreement come into existence first. We get agreement on THAT and that will be our foundation on which we build a better agreement. People have to know how to engage before we ask them to engage, Best guess is that we gave them content and process at the same time and people didn't know what to do.
- Konrad: I think what Lex wanted to say was that it's not a separate vision, the EC strategic plan and vision is the framework upon which the Trainers should define their own plans. Feedback can be very helpful in improving these things. Not a new thing, but has to fit into the overall picture.
- Kelly: EC is doing 2 themed discussions on Monday. See Community Calendar and Discussions page.
- Luca: Also starting with Lex's point. Disagree a bit with Sarah. Think Executive Council is there to support the rest of the organization. The organization is mostly volunteers, so the vision and strategic plan should be that of the volunteers, or the majority of them. The EC should be there to steer and implement. At some point that is not feasible and the Core Team and EC is there to make things reality and the community needs to listen to them. But the vision should start from below. What I see as a novice Trainer and Instructor, every time I teach at a Carpentries workshop we say we want to teach researchers coding and data skills, mostly basic skills to novices. Lately have been thinking why people should come to us instead of many other online platforms, the top 300 universities in the world have the same classes we propose, even more advanced. What is the difference? They are free and asynchronous. We are a volunteer organization, researchers willing to teach to researchers, with end objective of open science and reproducibility. How do we make this ideal real, teaching practices. Next 3-5 years we should be rethinking that direction, clarifying that we teach coding skills to teach open science and repeatability.
- As for the Trainer Agreement - I was one of those who was kind of scared off by the Trainer Agreement at the beginning because it sounded like a contract for work. Maybe that's just the wording. Personally it was the wording -- it was very defined in the amount of hours, so it sounded very strict like a contract and that didn't feel well with my commitment as a volunteer. For sure doing the Trainer Training that isn't a contract, it's there to help you, you put in this time and are considered active. It's not such a burden! But the wording or the presentation could make this more clear.
- Sarah B: Want to clarify that I'm not saying it has to be top down and not community driven, but the community is SO large. There are certain points that have to be decided, and some people are not going to like it. We can't have consensus for thousands. The content of the curriculum, we can't wait for the EC. But specifics of numbers, that's the budget. The EC has responsibility for the budget. There are certain levels at which we need them to tell us what to do. The EC didn't want to make a decision on our group and leave the decision to the new group, so our elections have to wait -- we need to work together better to figure out decision processes that will be effective.


Governance documentation: PRs to address initial suggestions from EC will be merged prior to election https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls


# Trainer Meeting February 18, 2021, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20210218T22

**Attending**
Kelly Barnes, she/her, kbarnes@carpentries.org
Mark Laufersweiler (he/him/his) laufers@ou.edu
Masami Yamaguchi, she/her, m.yamaguchi@griffith.edu.au
Jeff Oliver, he/him, jcoliver@arizona.edu
Brian Ballsun-Stanton, he/him
Mark Crwe (he/him), mark.crowe@qcif.edu.au
Kate Hertweck (perceived pronounds), k8hertweck@gmail.com
Karen Word (she/her) krword@carpentries.org
Ariel Deardorff, she/her, ariel.deardorff@ucsf.edu
Murray Cadzow, he/him, murray.cadzow@otago.ac.nz
Paula Andrea Martinez, she/her, @orchid00
Liz Stokes, she/her/they, liz.stokes@ardc.edu.au
Pao Corrales, she/her, paobcorrales@gmail.com
Erin Becker, she/her, ebecker@carpentries.org

**Notetaker:**

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
Name, pronouns, where you are located, What is one cool data set you have worked with before?
## Announcements
- Please remember to submit your availability form, even if you are not available! https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/trainers/Tfe01ffbfb70596e6/scheduling-the-carpentries-instructor-trainings-bonus-modules-and-teaching-demos-2021-q2
- Spanish/Bilingual demos needed in April. Please indicate in Calendly comments if you can host a demo in Spanish.
- Trainers Leadership Elections
- Timeline: elections first, then approval?
- Nominees! https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/Nominees2021.md
- Governance documentation: PRs to address initial suggestions from EC will be merged prior to election https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/pulls
- Brian: on leadership last year. What are your plans to promote regional community growth and groups of Carpentries and Carpentries workshops across the world?
- Jeff: There are many groups in Arizona with interest in The Carpentries, will be working more locally to drum up involvement. There are only so many of us so we can only do so many trainings, so would like to investigate other means to increase capaci
- Mark C: Australia is very well positioned to lead growth in Asia. We do feel a bit cut off in Australia, and to expand into our region we really need to give the Trainers a lot of support and recognition that they can do what they need without burnout, with support. Need to increase understanding backwards and forwards to more efficiently scale up and increase community in this area.
- Jeff: looking over governance and thinking of expertise of current leadership: is this all out/all in... are any of the folks leading this group going to continue through? What about Kelly and Karen?
- Kelly: Sarah Brown is in the current nominees. Several currently serving are willing to provide continuing advice and consultation.
- Karen: Kelly and I are here to serve this panel, but are not eligible to serve on the panel.
- Mark: C Carpentries is going to be an online organization for a while. It is so much easier to reach a wide range of people . How do we go beyond the bonus module to really restructure training to make it work in that online world?
- Jeff: Another opportunity is to expand some of the curriculum in Instructor Training to alternative training events, for folks who may not necessarily be interested in becoming Carpentries Instructors. This is a challenge because there is a limited number of Instructor Trainers
- Mark C: We use Carpentries Instructor Training here, but only expect half to be instructors in Carpentries workshops; the training is useful for people in their other training responsbilities.
- Question reprise from earlier session:
- Kari: leading a mentoring group this round. Group of Carpentries Instructors who have not taught and do not plan to teach soon. They took Instructor Training and love The Carpentries and are using what they have learned in their day-to-day work. Would love to hear from candidates and anyone what we can do to applaud that but also stress that we need people to teach for us! Thoughts?
- Liz: A lot comes back to the regional supporting communities and putting in infrastructure. The Carpentries is so good at that.  Would
- Mark L:  One of our biggest requested slots is the Open Instructor Training program. Balancing this with membership and obligations to provide training. As a member, working within the community to distribute teaching slots -- we need to balance these better. As we start to onboard more and more foundation members, it will close down that open free-form set of Instructors. That Open community is what makes us strong. Membership is good for local growth, but can't be a detriment to the community as a whole.
- Jeff: Really good point -- there are folks who are contributing and we have an obligation to those groups, and I wonder if there are alternative models that wecould explore more. Every tuesday morning I have a morning commitment -- I can't participate in any trainings that involve Tuesday mornings. Scheduling people isn't easy, but taking a page from Carpentries workshops whwere we have instructors for each of 4 modules, one Trainer is present for Monday, and then have someone else for Tuesday etc. Challenge is really the hugest challenge to overcome. We have 200% of obligations to fulfill, and 50% of what we need to sustain it. How can we use that 50% better?
- Mark C: Instructors not going into the Carpentries, as a Trainer I want to see that my trainees are going on to teach. It is disappointing when they don't. Something that might help is pushing the Carpentries Lab and Incubator, both moving existing content through faster and encouraging many more submissions, to offer a much wider range of courses under the Carpentries banner. That will allow new instructors who's interests don't overlap that well with the existing syllabus to stay within the Carpentries community.
- Ariel: Making things more flexible on both ends may help+1
- Paula: When we are asked to teach it is really hard to respond so far in advance. Same with community discussions, before it had to be at a particular time, now we have the ability to pick your time. Would also be good for instructor Training to have more flexibility. It was 2 days because we didn't have enough people to train in one location, and now with online training we see how more flexible arrangements work.
- The second point, is to have a question in the instructor training asking whether they are willing to teach for the carpentries after doing the instructor training. So we don't loose capacity.
- Masami: Don't agree with making it selective (based on their williness to teach), our door should stay open. But when we select attendees, it shoudlbe based on our strategy. Eg if there's 1 instructor per town, their support may be limited. Also, f2f preference is returning. How to pick attendees for training would help expand our program. +1
- MarkL: I'mthe old dog at this show! Historically instructor training was online, becuase there was only Greg. It's recent phenomenon that training is f2f. This could be a talking point at one of our other meetings
- Brian: this was very conversational flow - perhaps all candidates should be invited to give a polished/ edited response to these questions?
- Karen: yes, I'll be circulating this to all nominees
- Question reprise from earlier session:
- Kelly: what challenges and opportunities would you like to see the new leadership address in this first year?
- Jeff: Mark and I have talked about challenges and opportunitiies, but I'd like to hear from you all about what you'd like to see us this year. Re Leadership / trainer agreement redevelopment process, I think it was handled really well. Change is hard, and opportunities for engagement were spot on, I think some people weren't realdy for the numbers and the quantification, but it's really useful to have these expectations, even if it feels uncomfortable. Kudos to you all - even though I didn't
- Mark C: I missed all the trainer agreement business, I think the best way to get the most out is to get really involved in it. I'm the least experienced trainer on this call, but I want to give back into the commuity, which is why I put my name forward and look forward to seeing this community to grow.
- Kelly: Voting will open now, you'll receive an email from election buddy, take an opportunity to read the statements,
- Karen: we're squeezing the time a bit between these meetings, enabling people to respond to questions before people vote.
- Question reprise from earlier session:
- Kari: What kinds of accessibility questions are we asking, not only in the process of teaching Instructor Training but also for the Trainers themselves? We have Trainers from all over the world, but is everyone able to teach, does everyone have the tools that they need. Have we looked at accessibility for Trainers themselves and are there opportunities to improve that?
