# Trainer Meeting 1, November 19  UTC 14:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201119T14

**Please sign in (name, pronouns)**
- Angelique van Rensburg angelique@carpentries.org @angvanrensburg
- Serah Rono / serah@carpentries.org / @serahrono
- Amanda Charbonneau, she/her
- Trisha Adamus, she/her
- Anne Fouilloux, she/her
- Sarah Stevens, she/her/hers
- Lex Nederbragt, he/him
- Pao Corrales, she/her
- Kelly Barnes, she/her
- Evgenij Belikov, he/him
- Maneesha Sane maneesha@carpentries.org
- Angela Li, she/her
- Sarah Brown she/her
- Mateusz Kuzak he/him
- David Pérez-Suárez he/him
- Toby Hodges, he/him

**Agenda:**
## Introductions
## Announcements
- EC self-nominations close November 22. EC elections will be resolved before Trainer elections open. https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/10/2021-executive-council-election-announcement/
## Topic of the month: Governance!
- Basic governance proposal - https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/master/governance.md

**Issues  for discussion (the "question" label is being used to identify issues for the present discussion.) - https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues**
Timeline:
- Mid November: The Committee identifies a point of contact for the election. This person should not be standing for re-election.
- Early December: Elections announced, Self-nominations open
- Mid January: Self-nominations close, entries posted, dedicated Trainer meeting held to introduce candidates
- Late January: Trainers vote
- March 1: Responsibility transferred to new Members

- Should we do it?
- What is scary/intimidating/feels imposed?
- Lex: Great idea, definitely something we should do.
- EC bylaws revision: bylaws are kind-of strict rules, that sometimes refer to policies. Added and clarified committee and task force policy. Recently discovered we forgot to inform the community about this. Also discovered it is still unclear that we have lesson programs and an Instructor Training program. We are lacking clear instructions for program governance. You are taking the initiative here which we hope to have for all lesson programs. May involve making this the Instructor Training Program governance (recognizing that as a Program). Don't know how the current curriculum is steered. Speaking on my own behalf but likely that EC will agree.
- Sarah B: we put curriculum maintenance on the responsibilities of the governance panel
- Karen: They have responsibility to oversee and ensure it happens, but others can participate
- Toby: would find it clearer to have more explicitly defined where the checkout process falls (is is curriculum or separate)
- Would anybody do this?
- Amanda: I would think about it! Not impossible
 - Lex: Important to help Karen.
 - Can spread out the time and contribute more on your schedule.
 - Sarah B: You don't have to do all the administrative work and research and things Karen and Kelly are here to support the group. It's not as much work as it might seem like otherwise. It's not fully volunteer
 - Amanda: List of issues that you have that are questions.
- STV vs other voting systems.
- David we need a mechanism to change the voting system if we don't like it?
- -Sarah B - for now we don't have to put this in the document, it doesn't currently specify the voting system. Aim is to elect 5 people.
- Evgenij  - maybe stick with what the EC does, +1 Pao
- What happens if we don't get enough nominations?
- EC uses First Past the Post (form Maneesha)
- EC does direct votes and not weighted or ranked voting. In ElectionBUddy it says "Plurality" for this method.
- Removal: EC actually dismissed nuclear option.
- 1 year term. Would you consider 2 year term and put half up each time?
- EC initialized with highest half of votes elected for two years, rest elected for one year

# Trainer Meeting 2, November 19, UTC 22:00
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20201119T22

**Please sign in (name, pronouns)**
- Brian Ballsun-Stanton (he/him)
- Kelly Barnes (she/her)
- Masami Yamaguchi (she/her)
- Mark Crowe (he/him)
- Jeff Oliver (he/him)
- Liz Stokes (she/her)
- Mark Laufersweiler (he/him)
- Karin Lagesen (she/her)
- Tim Dennis (he/him)
- Darya Vanichkina (she/her)

Agenda:
## Introductions
## Announcements
- EC self-nominations close November 22. EC elections will be resolved before Trainer elections open. https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/10/2021-executive-council-election-announcement/
## Topic of the month: Governance!

- **Basic governance proposal - https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/master/governance.md**
- Issues  for discussion (the "question" label is being used to identify issues for the present discussion.) -https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues
- Mark C: what is the difference between active trainer or trainer in good standing as stated in the governance document?
- Karen: There is a sense that having taught instructor training was fairly important to knowing what you are leading. That being said, new trainers have a fresh perspective and energy and might be a good addition.
- We do need to be more consistent with the language.
- Mark L: active means they have been teaching but in good standing means they may be serving in a different way.
- Jeff: What is the core team? Can we have a clearer, easier way to understand that? Core team members enumerated at https://carpentries.org/team/
- Karin: Definitions would be very useful (e.g., good standing, quorum, etc.), Make it clear if the staff/liaisons are non-voting members. Consider minimum of 5 members to allow flexibility. It should be specified that the liaison is non-voting, they do have speaking rights. Recommend having one scribe instead of rotating notetakers for increased memory across meetings.
- Karen: Lex said that the Executive Council did a staggered group by electing the people with the most votes for two terms and then others for 1 term.
- Timeline: Self nominations in December/Early January, Voting during late January/Early February, new council to start in March
- Darya: Explained why she is in favor of voting systems other than first past the post. In order to get people who represent the issues trainers care about, a preferential voting system works better.
- Karen: Other issues
- Powers and responsibilities section does not mention who governs checkout
- Darya: How is it being controlled now?
- Karen: Someone will have an idea, an issue will be opened, and then people will decide based on what it seems
- Mark L.: It is helpful that the Exec will see us as more of a committee. We could form a sub-committee about checkout.  Only 1 person will need to be from the leadership. We can draw on the rest of the trainer community for other members. Ratification would still be by the trainer community
- Removal
- Jeff: I'm a little wary of having too stringent criteria. Also don't want a situation where the majority can kick out the minority.
- Darya: Maybe the executive council can mediate
- Mark C: On a related topic, should there be a mechanism for the committee to remove the chair if they fail to perform their duties?
