# Trainer Business Meeting
 
## Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)  x = present
San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm
- Erin Becker - x
- Kari L. Jordan - x
- Mateusz Kuzak - x
- Christina Koch- x
- Belinda Weaver - x
- Maneesha Sane- x
- Jason Williams - x
- Mark Laufersweiler -x 
- Chris Hamm- x
- Anelda vd Walt -x
 
## Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
- Erin Becker - X
- Jeff Oliver - X
- Rayna Harris - X
- Karin Lagesen - X
- Tracy Teal -X
- Karen Word - X
- Jonah Duckles - X
- Tim Dennis - X
- Naupaka Zimmerman - X
  
# Agenda
 
If you won't be able to attend the meetings but would still like to contribute to the discussion and vote, please send your comments and vote to the Trainers list.
 
- Update on plan moving forward for open instructor training
- Vote on Instructor Trainer application: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1ptwIDsLQPZiagRX7OSw642YV6MaqCYSw5qIHb7NtZqg/edit
  - +9 and -0 from first session
  - +1 in general - Karin is wondering about the section about Spanish/tribal etc.
  - Updated question: is this an effort going on at the moment? In that case, all this could be solved by adding "At this time, we are specifically working"... that also sends the message that we could be targeting a different group next time (which is what I suspect is Erin's intention :))
  - That section is now updated to "We are specifically working to expand the Carpentries community in Latin America and across diverse institutional types." Looks good! Could it be updated to 'Latin America and Africa' since there is a lot of activity in Africa right now and we want to support that?
  - Instead of just Spanish could it also be 'Other languages you're fluent in' then be able to list them? And then maybe 'Associations with universities serving underserved communities'. Since we'll likely keep these applicatons around for potentially another round, the information would be useful if we change priorities and also relevant internationally. 
  - +9 and -0 from second session
 
- Vote on Instructor Trainer agreement: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12E4Zw7q61plmSHshK7ZEl1YsQNhJ_4kYVfyynElbTyI/edit
- Update on plan for instructor training curriculum lesson release in August
  - +10 and -0 from first session
  - +9 and -0 from second session
- Outline: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t2W8PKu78KtTX92qdhqclYGljAbLiWfhza7qH6s1088/edit (please add comments to doc or send comments to Erin (ebecker@carpentries.org) by June 5th)
- Issue Bonanza: July 13-14 
- Bug BBQ: August 3-4
- Publish! August 11
 
 
Notes: 
 
### Scheduling Instructor Training for Sept - early December (fall for northern hemisphere - maybe better to refer to mnths rather than seaon?) Good catch!  Thanks for pointing that out.
    - Maneesha to send out a scheduling spreadsheet soon (same as last time) to fill out for Sept - early Decemberish
    I'd like to have at least a couple on the calendar for early December.  That's when classes end in the US and people may want to do something then.  Definitely not past mid-December. -maneesha
    - Goal is to get one training slot available per major time zone per month
    
### Open Instructor training
    - have clearance to process backlog of applications for open instructor training (~350 applications)
    - thanks to Belinda, Mateusz and Jason for helping go through these!
    - sorted by time zone, being reviewed in that grouping
    - planning 7 events, will take up to a year to get through the backlog
    - Maneesha + Erin will coordinate scheduling for these 7 events; may use "unused" training slots for Americas/Europe, will need other arrangements for Africa/Asia
    - (Belinda to be in S. Africa in October, could help do a training there)
    - Could also break up training into 4 half-days if it's hard to find good 8 hour blocks, or split training in half so first half is done by one person + second by another
    - New places!
      - Asia: India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Hong Kong, Singapore, China
      - Africa: Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, S. Africa, DRC
    - Karin - we have a deadline for partners to sign up until a month before. Is it correct that we backfill only after that month?
    - Erin- yes, that's how we're planning to handl events that fall into time zones already plans for partners. We probably won't have slots that will open up for groups in Asia  so we'll work on getting trainers for those.
    - Rayna - assuming the 1-month time frame is enough time to prepare... should we have a longer deadline? Is that enough?
    - Erin - were going through applications now so we have a list of everyone in each time zone. Because we don't have to set up physical rooms and we have a list of trainers, we think it will work! 

### Instructor Trainer Application
     - Application for next cohort of trainers (9-10) people
     - Feedback sent by email, awaiting any final concerns or suggestions
     - Rubric forthcoming
     - Vote on application
     - Move forward with opening applications; will publish/advertise as widely as possible
       - Karin: this seems somewhat US centric so suggest we add "in this round" to clarify that this will change. 
       - Erin - yes this is something that will change
       - Tracy - thinking of this as a more general application, given that we're going to keep this on file, do we only want to have this information or do we want to be thinking about creating something that we might continue to use. Maybe we should put Africa on here? We don't want people to feel like their community is being excluded from being targeted for expansion. So would prefer a broader version, but we could go either way.
       - Erin - have added Africa to that question... do we want to add more than English -- e.g. French?
       - Tracy - is there a downside to asking "which languages do you speak"?
       - Rayna-  searchability. Maybe we could do both?
       - Erin - basically what we're looking for here is permission to go ahead with the application and we can fine-tune language later... move to a vote ok?
     - vote +9/-0

### Instructor Trainer Agreement
    - Not something you would officially "sign", more of an informal agreement
    - Mateusz: are there enough demo sessions for everyone to do one a month?
         Erin: added language to "average" one a month so you could clump them together
    - Belinda: also challenging to sign up for demos if you've trained a lot of people of recently and shouldn't be checking them out (as their trainer)
         Erin: In general, try to avoid checking out people we've trained, but if it happens occasionally, that's probably okay
    - Maneesha: add something about providing feedback about how training's went
    - Notice the final section -- you can take a break and come back, but while inactive, won't vote on trainer decisions
    - Chris / Anelda: challenge of things being added, feeling guilty when there are things you can't do (because we all have limited time!)
        Erin: change monthly demo suggestion to quarterly
        Maneesha: will have a lot more partners soon // Erin: will also have more trainers! 
        Mark: Maybe think of it more as doing "one thing" a month -- a demo or a discussion or a 2-day training event each counts as one activity. 
    - Related question: when do you become a trainer?
       Erin: In the past, you become "fully certified" when you taught your first workshop; would be more in favor once you complete the "book club" portion of the trainer training
       Maneesha: with more regularly scheduled training events, maybe include observation as one of the steps for certification
       Jason: complete book club + demonstrate that you have some familiarity with this knowledge.  Can be easy to fall away, want to enforce standards. 
       For people where trainer status matters for work, would an actual certificate be useful?  --> Yes! For professional and personal happiness.  :)
       Jonah - How do we track active/inactive? How do we turn people off when they can't make the commitment?
       Erin - basially I'm aware of who's doing what and if people are not active I can get in touch with them and see if that's intentional or if they just need a reminder. Happy to take this on.
       Karin- thought on curriculum. We as an organization assume that instructors become instructors because they've been trained by our curriculum, but we have no explicit statement of this fact. 
       Erin - is this a concern? Putting in a provision like this restricts people from trying out new modules and playing with new ideas. Worried about creating problems.
       Naupaka - Even when we ask people to use the curriculum it's still pretty flexible. Is a high level of guidance re curriculum goals too restrictive?
       Erin - we're thinking about rearranging the instructor training curriculum into modules, and what we're teaching are those things. It could be that we're talking about including those portions of the curriculum. I don't want to put something in our agreement right now because we don't have that structure in our curriculum and that kind of anticipates further action. I don't see this as a concern, where current instructors are likely to veer off the deep end with curriculum. Not strongly in favor and might send the wrong message. 
       Rayna - If you think about the end from the perspective of the student who has to miss "a whole day" or "3 hours" having some iind of requirement about what a student must fulfill can provide a ready response to those issues.Loosely defined enough to allow for curricular expansion and  enough structure to make explicit requirements on both ends, both insturctor and student agreeing to a list of minimal required lessons.
       Vote: +9/-0

###Instructor Training Curriculum
    - Thinking about next lesson release, and what adjustments we can make to the curriculum for that release
    - Mostly a rearrangement; some material deleted (based on survey that was sent around); some things added as well
    - Maneesha: table format is nice! Could be good to have a table like this in our published materials. 
    - Jason: how are we collecting feedback from the trainees at this level in order to shape materials?  
        - Erin: currently have a survey that goes out to trainees, need to do some more analysis // challenge of limited feedback, can evaluate efficacy of what is actually there
        - What do with with sticky notes? --> at the moment, not much.  :P
        - Planning to implement pre-workshop survey as well. 
    - Timeline: 
        - review material in June --> please leave comments in the document!  This is still the start of this process + we want your feedback.  
        - In end of June / early July putting togethe reorganized curriculum IN A FORK.  ;)
        - Issue Bonanza/Bug BBQ later in the summer to do final polishing
        - Feedback wanted by *June 5*
        - Karin - what do we do when we have people coming to the workshop who haven't been to a SWC/DC workshop? 
        - Erin - that happened already. We don't have the carpentries modules until day 2, that's one basis for the Carpentries intro module that introduces people without getting into the weeds. 
        - Karin - are we keeping that?
        - Erin - yes. This balances giving an orientation without having to spend the first 2 hours explaining policy. That's demotivating!
        - Rayna - Is there anyway that checkout can be moved from supplementary sometimes-hard-to-find thing to being Episode 24?
        - Erin - what I've been doing is teaching the checkout extra episode as the afternoon wrapup. At stanford we didn't use it as a module. Please enter that as a comment on the document
        
### Bonus: 
- Kari's training at University of FL
    - Group was very interested in pedagogy + creating inclusive environments, lots of good discussions
    - Lots of post-docs + faculty, may do checkouts later in the summer
- Erin/Karen @ Stanford
    - Lots of librarians
    - Very into the pedagogy. 
-  Tim/Belinda's library carpentry went well! https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/05/lc-Portland-Boston.html
 
 
 
## Summary Email
 
Hi everyone,
Thanks to all who attended for a great set of Business meetings today! We had great turnout (18 Trainers across the two meetings) and a really productive set of discussions.We voted to move forward with opening up applications for joining the Trainers group using [this application](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1ptwIDsLQPZiagRX7OSw642YV6MaqCYSw5qIHb7NtZqg/edit). We also voted on implementing an agreement for folks serving in the Trainer's group to help clarify expectations. 
You can find the agreement [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12E4Zw7q61plmSHshK7ZEl1YsQNhJ_4kYVfyynElbTyI/edit). 
Both passed unanimously after a productive discussion and well-considered modifications being proposed by the group. Thank you all for your attention to detail! 
Based on our conversations, we'll also be moving forward with reorganization of the instructor training curriculum in preparation for our next lesson release in August. You can find the new outline [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t2W8PKu78KtTX92qdhqclYGljAbLiWfhza7qH6s1088/edit). Please add comments before June 5th. After that point Christina and I will start a new fork and begin the rearranging process. You're welcome (of course!) to get involved with posting issues and PRs in that fork right away, but we'll also be having dedicated Issue Bonanza and Bug BBQ days prior to the release. The dates for those are: 
- Issue Bonanza: July 13-14 
- Bug BBQ: August 3-4 
- Publish! August 11
We also updated on the process moving forward with open instructor training events over the next year. Thanks again to all who are helping go through the 350 current applications. I'll be in touch about next steps in mid-June.
Thanks again to everyone for a great meeting. Looking forward to seeing you all again soon.
Best,
Erin
