# Carpentry Instructor Trainers Group

## Trainer Business Meeting  (Note time change outside of USA)
- Thursday, March 23, 2017 UTC 22:00 (Erin)
- Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourne 9am FRIDAY, Auckland 11am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
- See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170323T15&p1=224

## Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)  x = present
- Maneesha Sane x
- Aleks Nenadic x
- Kari L. Jordan x
- Jeff Oliver x
- Rayna Harris x
- Mateusz Kuzak x
- Chris Hamm x
- Christina Koch x

## Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
- Christina Koch x
- Erin Becker x
- Belinda Weaver x
- Anelda van der Walt x
- Ariel Rokem x
- Naupaka Zimmerman x
- Karen Word x

## Apologies
- Steve Crouch


## Agenda

## Introductions

## Announcement about curriculum (Christina)
- official maintiners. in the past it was Christina and Greg. Now its Christina and Erin. 
- working on resolving old issues and cleaning the docket. new developments will be discussed at these meetings
- quick fix - easy things that can be resolved with a pull request without further discussion
- Erin and Cristina will give us an update on all the tags once they finalize the meaning
- specific question from Anelda: with upcoming workshop, can shorten carpentries module (based on upcoming potential merger?)  Answer: should still cover same material, but if it takes less than an hour, that's okay.  

## Scheduling training events (update for June-August)
- new process, organizing schedule around trainer's calendars.  Saying "trainers are available at these dates" and have the partner sites sign up. 
- everyone reported their availability here https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/10qr987YT9qYi0NGO1sJhe3OHkIL70bbqtUbJNvhfC58/edit
- Meesha has put together a tentative schedule in the same document above
- Everyone has been assigned a partner and a few dates to choose from
- note: Belinda is running a training in June that's not listed (June 19-20, Sydney)
- workshops that have been pre-arranged are not necessarily on this calendar
- **ACTION ITEM**: everyone discuss with your partner and chose a date. Let Maneesha know by Thursday March 30th. Then those times will be "confirmed." 
- These dates will then be shared with the partner sites and they will be asked to sign up at least one month in advance. 
- This seems to be working for people 
- If you didn't sign up for a time in this time range, shadow an event in your time zone
- Question: Are these online or in person: Answer. These will all be online training event. 
- Moving forward, we will continue this process four times a year so that we always have a plan three months out. For non-summer months, the goal will be to offer 1 per time zone per month.
- For the trainers who are not assigned a training during the three month period, they will be asked to help assist with planned trainings. 
- Questions: How soon is too soon or too late for planning. Answer: The current planning schedule worked great for some. 90 day notice good for some.

## Ensure all participants complete application form
- Context: Track instructor trainees via an account in AMY.  This account is only created when people complete the training application form (link: https://amy.software-carpentry.org/forms/request_training/ )
- Many people have not been completing the application form. This means we cannot track their progress and have to ask them for this information after the fact.  
- Solution: The trainers should take 5 minute to ensure that everyone completes this during the training event. 
- **Suggestion:** Add the workshop tag "YY-MM-DD-ttt-online" group ID to the welcome email so that everyone knows that they are part of a group and should use that 
- **Suggestion:** Officially add this to the cirriculum if its not already there
- Side issue: automatic response to the form says "we can't provide open training" which is confusing to people who are "applying" for a training that's already happening
- V. Important to include the group name in the form!  This is what makes sure that people don't get the generic "open training" email
- Potential future state: changing the form to make it choosing from options as opposed to free text entry
- Suggest changes at: Github repo for AMY: https://github.com/swcarpentry/amy
- Ariel: before, entered data using csv?  Can we still do that?  Answer: no, mostly because we'd like to keep lots of people from all entering data into the database
- Belinda to provide some feedback to Erin on the automatic email that goes out

## Process for recording trainee progress.  One badge.
- we are moving from a two badge system to a one badge system.  One discussion, one contribution, one demo --> one badge
Erin has changed all the documentation, if you see anything that didn't get changed, let her know.  
- send list of who completed training, demo, discussion to checkout@carpentries.org.  Do not record anything in AMY.
- What to do about people who didn't pass (didn't participate in discussion, didn't show up for session they signed up for)
- For demo sessions: They should be allowed to come back and repeat the demo. 
- One option is to give a second try, but the trainer can show discretion based on the learners attitute and preparation
- Making the expectations more clear about what to do after the training could help minimize problems with incomplete checkout. Managing expectations is crucial.
- Question: Are we talking about a rubric with a point/scale system or a pass fail. Answer: Pass Fail just for the demo. There is a github issue on this: https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/394
- Problem: very high attendance at discussion session does make it hard to get meaning discussion from participants. Answer: the mentoring committee has disucssed splitting up the group into two groups, but this is logistically challenging. Still working on an ideal system. Christina: in favor of elminating multiple checkouts, but want to make sure we have some future discussion about what might be different about teaching SWC/DC; instructors will probably self-select by the workshops they teach, but want to provide support for the ways that the teaching is different between the two

## What do you need to be prepared before/during/after an event?
- Maneesha is working on a detailed operations guide for all the things. 
- **Creating a checklist**: Add your comments here! https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/328
- Comment: Issue on github regarding a google drive folder: https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/405 this would be a great place to store slides so that we can share them and (if you want) to reuse them. should all be saved in an editable format, not pdfs
- Comment: students want a better reading list. Greg will put together more detailed comments on the books we reccomend. Use PRs for the instructors guide to add your own favorites https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/blob/gh-pages/reference.md  --> should someone make an issue for this?  
- Comment: would like a way to print all the lessons in 1 document rather than printing all separately. Answer: couldn't find a soultion to this. --> I (Christina) think Raniere wrote a script at one point to do this?  I seem to remember that too
- Comment: Would like to know three things about the learners 1) DC/SWC famililarity 2) teaching experimence 3) motivation for training. SOlution. Maneesha is working to get a solution so that we know this information about the learnings a few weeks before the training so that this info can be shared with the instructors.
- Comment: A guide on how to make slides would be useful. Solution: The carpentries will work on a template slide deck that will give consistency on style and accessibility. 
- Tracking what experience people have, to make it easier to organize locally/regionally

## Conlusion
- Talk with your partner and get back to Maneesha with your dates for teaching by next Thursday 
