# Trainer Business Meeting, January 25, 2018

## Agenda
- Disscuss proposed changes to instructor checkout requirements
    1. Getting rid of the discussion requirement for checkout.
    1. Removing the policy of not allowing trainees to do teaching demo with their Trainers.
    1. Getting rid of the lesson contribution requirement for checkout.

- Vote on propsed changes to instructor checkout
- Call for contibutions
    - Instructor training curriculum: check out the issues labled "Discussion" and discuss  https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues
    - Newsletter 'teaching tips' to support continuing development & refresh core principles from instructor training: seeking writers! 

## Attending:
1st meeting
- Erin Becker
- Chris Hamm 
- Toby Hodges
- Anelda van der Walt
- Juliane Schneider
- Rayna Harris
- Maneesha Sane
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Kari L. Jordan
- Paula Andrea Martinez
- Anita Sch√ºrch
- Amy Hodge
- Aleks Nenadic

2nd meeting
- Erin Becker
- Jason Williams
- Karen Word
- Caroline F. Ajilogba
- Christina Koch
- Jonah Duckles
- Elizabeth Williams

### Call for of discussion of instructor training curriculum: 
- now under management by Christina and Karen
- Please check out things in the instructor trainging curriculumn tagged as discussion
https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues

### Call for of contibutions to the newsletter
- Seeking advice for teaching tips
- please write a short 1 paragraph blurb to be included in the newsletter


### Summary of voting

1. **Remove discussion as requirement for checkout**
    - *In favor*: Jason, Greg, Jonah, Tracy, Christina, Kari, Rayna, Amy, Erin
    - *Opposed*: Anelda (not scared of a change,but don't think this is the right change), Paula (we do need to support mentor-hosts), Toby (without discussing a clear alternative), Chris (I think a change is warranted but don't want to lose it), Maneesha, Anita, Mark L, Aleks (I think these sessions are valuable but would make them on per need basis, not a strict requriement)
    - *Abstain*:
    - *Needs more discussion*:
1. **Remove policy of not allowing trainees to do demo with their Trainers**
    - **In favor**: Jason, Greg, Jonah, Tracy Christina, Kari, Rayna, Anelda, Amy, Paula, Toby, Maneesha, Chris, Anita, Mark L, Aleks
    - *Opposed*:
    - *Abstain*:
    - *Needs more discussion*:
1. **Remove lesson contribution as a requirement for checkout**
    - *In favor*: Jason, Christina, Kari, Paula (however encourage them before teaching), Toby, Anelda(but could we find replacement to show how we encourage contributions), Erin (but communicate in instructor training how we encourage contributions), Amy (agree with finding another way to get people interested in contributing to lessons up to speed on the process)
    - *Opposed*: Jonah (same as Greg), Elizabeth (ditto, in favor of bio contribution)
    - *Abstain*:
    - *Needs more discussion*: Greg (in favor of removing it and replacing it with something else), Rayna (need to find better pathway for participation first), Chris (change the requirement for a PR but keep the PR), Maneesha, Anita (hightlights the primary method for participation using Github so not sure it needs to be a PR, but something needs to be worked out), Aleks (I like contributions but again not as a mandatory option for pasisng checkout)


### Discussion of proposed changes instructor checkout requirements
Summary: emails have gone out to both the instructor training group and to the maintainers group. stems from year-long discussions about checkout from instructors and traininers. the requirements may not longer serve the desired purpose and are a burden on the mentoring committee

#### 1. Removing discussion sessions as a requirement for checkout. 
Kari - Mentoring subcommittee has been putting a lot of work in trying to get leaders to host the discussion sessions. We've had more people going through for checkout and not many experienced instructors to discuss their experiences. The energy that the mentoring subcommittee is putting into recruiting and hosting could be used for developing better programming for mentoring new and continuing instructors. 

Toby - Sessions where we have a mix of trainees and experienced instructors are by far the best discussions that we have. not to say that the discussions with only trainees haven't been worthwhile, all excellent and have a great time. Initial reaction was horrified. Don't want them to die. Reasons for removing from checkout are understandable. What I love about the Carpentries is not just that it's taught me to be a better instructor but as a member of the community,+1 the training that we provide is about more than teaching style during a workshop. It's about the iterative process of teaching and reflection to improve. :D

Anelda - people dread it beforehand but they love it afterwards! Worry that removing the requirement could mean that they miss out on this experimence. Have started a montly meetup group. Remember that Greg always asked people specifically to assist rather than putting out a call - there was a call and specific nomination which prompted some people to take up an opportunity that they themselves might not have thought they were "qualified" for.

Mark - discussion are critical for building community. the discussion session is not always useful for people who do this training for professional development rather than to go on to teach Carpentry workshops

Erin - idea beind removal is to free up the mentoring committees energy to develope new programs that will help instructors that will serve the same purposes. The discussion sessions will continue to exist, however, it will not be overwelmed by checkouts. Regarding "voluntelling" one of the things that was identified is that many of our maintainers were voluntold and not happy with the role, so we are trying to move to a more voluntary role. 

Amy - think it is critical that we keep the communty aspects. Believer that removing the requirement might actually increase participation for pre- and post- workshop. A key problem is that these requirments come at the wrong time. 

Rayna - Agree with Amy. The timing is imperfect. We (mentoring group and trainers) thought this would be good, but it is not as effect as we hoped. Agree that we should remove this as a requirment, but what are we going to have them do instead to get them into the community. 

Toby - what will we do instead? Would like to have a plan for what to do instead before removing the requirment. 

Annita - discussion sessions benefit most when people show up with a purpose (pre or post) rather than simpy as a requirment. 

Erin - one possible suggestion is have multiple pathways for badges for professional development. When we started doing certifications, there was an idea that every instructor needed to be deeply embedded in every aspect of the community because it was so small. Now, that we have grown, people can be much more specialized (only teach, only develop lessons, only mentor, etc). We need to embrace this. 

Kari - goal is to get people invovlved in the lessons that they are interested in. 

Anelda - the checkout process is very much for professional development. Both the discussion session and the lesson contribution is in itself part of professional development.

Erin - about 38% of people finish checkout. this indicates that there may be something preventing finishing the pgrocess. Maneesha has done a lot of data anlaysis to obtain metrics on who many people teach and such. 



**Metrics for intructor training completion**
- Total
    - Number of instructors that taught at 0 - workshops: 44%
    - Number of instructors that taught at 1 workshop: 20%
- The numbers drop when you only look at the instructors certified more than a year ago (which indicates that people perhaps need a year to settle in and find/organise a workshop):
    - Number of instructors that taught at 0 workshops: 35%
    - Number of instructors that taught at 1 workshop: 22%

Rayna - everyone agrees that this requirment is a stumbling block for the community and has good reason to believe that chaning the policy with improve instructor training AND will improve the quality of the discussion sessions for those who are participating for pre- and post- workshop debriefs. We should not be scared to change things in the process if we see that its broken.

**Side note: Book club suggestion for upcoming trainers meetings**
Many people are ordering their teaching books with the gift from the SWC Steering Committee. A suggestion was made to have a book club style discussion, and this was enthusiatically recieveed.

Greg - okay with dropping

Jonah - huge value of having mentorship or communitiy calls to create a sense of membership in a global community. Need to find a way to have small group engagements.

Jason: echo Jonah's point about creating small-group discussions (maybe annual regional meetups?)

Cristina - in favor of dropping, but we do need to find ways for small discussion formats

Tracy - something good from droping this is that it frees the mentoriship leaders to find other strategies and use of time

#### 2.  Getting rid of lesson contribution
Greg - Strongly in favor of eliminating because the community is quite larger. However we should have some kind of "writing" requirement that people can take ownership. So really eliminating contribution to core lessons should move elsehwere

Jonah - What if having them contribute their bio is how we get folks to get conformtable with PRs

Jason: everyone has said what I would have said - maybe we're not making it explicitly clear why we're asking you to do a pull request? (likes Jonah's idea of having them contribute their bio) We want folks to know there are tools for contributing

Cristina also supports the idea of Bio contributions as PRs

#### 3. Eliminate instructor trainers checking out their own trainees

Greg - okay with letting it go, still important to keep tabs on original issue (double-review, essentially)

Jonah -  thinks having an instructor graduate their own students is relatively normal in other training senarios (Judo), as long as we are maintaining consistancy

Jason: in favor of getting rid of this, but there should be some policy to limit doing this at your own institution or where there's some other conflict of interest (or at least identify conflicts of interest)

Cristina - Also for eliminating, but also supports some kind of COI statement if it is not a logictical hurdle. 

Tracy - is for a general COI statement, let trainers decide if they have conflict. Also gives people the sense that they have an "out" if they need it. 

Additional comment from Erin - overall we don't want the checkout to be the last contribution, so we don't have to consider this as the only way to engage. 
