# Trainer Business Meeting
Thursday, February 22, 2018
Link to connect: https://carpentries.zoom.us/my/kariljordan 

## Agenda
- Update about hybrid trainings.
- Survey about soliciting Trainer feedback: https://goo.gl/forms/LUAp6uGwLH15xT8Y2
- (Lack of) changes to checkout process

## Attending:
1st meeting
- Kari L. Jordan
- Sher! 
- Maneesha Sane
- Karin Lagesen
- Lex Nederbragt
- Tracy Teal
- Amy Hodge
- Greg Wilson
- François Michonneau
- Elizabeth Wickes
- Rayna Harris

2nd meeting
- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Christina Koch
- Belinda Weaver
- Tracy Teal

## Update about hybrid trainings

- **Rationale**: Often when we have member organizations, only 6 people sign up. This is too few people for a workshop with 2 instructors. 
- Recently have started teaching workshops that are half members and half open trainings.
- Test driven in instructor training recently: 4 people at Oregon (on own computer for video/shared audio), several distributed, 2 remote instructors.  Breakouts were done locally for the local site.
- **Benefits:** This allows us to reach more people by having larger groups with two instructors
- Amy: recent training there were 4. aside from technical issues it worked well. Had each person, even at the local site, connect with their own computer. For breakouts, had the people local to do the breakout together. Would not have worked well with all the people on one. Everyone on their own video and one audio. 
- Instructor training locally, could fill with open people, if they wanted to come. 
- Also, if people in open, should let host know that there are people in 'open' from their area.
- Most awkward was that one person was in the room with the local people, and then other people remote. Makes it feel uneven. Easier when it's all online. Suggestion: don't have one teacher in the room with students
- In this configuration, easiest to do same breakout groups each time, because you have to take out the people all in one place at the beginning, and that has some logistics. So, easier if you just keep them the same the whole time.
- Positive feedback from Mark/Belinda/Christina on being able to have people connect individually so you can see their faces, even if the group is co-located
- Question: should we forgo the co-location all together?  Hard to organize (get a room for 2 days, co-locate people) and less helpful for us. Answer: Mark's trainees have been appreciative of being co-located and able to talk with each other and have side discussions. This really only works if instructor is remote to co-located instructors; a local instructor should only be teaching local people
- **Chanllenge:** Doing some local and some remote not a good experience. Others have seen this. Remote is so disadvantaged. 
- **Action item:** Write up notes on how to do this for instructor trainer manual/guide
- **Action item:** Maybe write up our experience to see what common problems occurred and how they were solved.

## Survey about soliciting Trainer feedback: 
- link https://goo.gl/forms/LUAp6uGwLH15xT8Y2

- Summary: This survey is NOT intended to replace the feedback form from learners, rather it is more realtime assesment to inform day 2.
- The curriculum is a now little time-crunched, and as we think about how to tighten things up, Christina and I would like to know more about how trainers are coping currently — what gets skipped, shortened, moved, etc. It would also be nice to get a little systematic feedback from trainers.
- Otherwise, there are basically two questions for the group: 1) would it be too imposing to add something like this to Trainer responsibilities in a formal way? We could make it optional, it would be really nice to get feedback more routinely. 2) Is this a useful/easy/noninvasive format?
- comments from trainers
    - -1  This may not be an effective way to collect feedback because it may be teacher-specific. Would reflect how people teach. Might be better to have a discussion than to do a form style. Shouldn't be how we decide. Should be a point for discussion. Will be somewhat biased based on who fills this out. 
    - +1 Even during the monthly discussion sessions, we can't always collect all this information. This will help give an overall picture of how these are going and to see generally what people are thinking about their workshop
    - +1 Good to collect this information, not necessarily doing statistical analysis, but using the information. A structured place to give information would be useful. A place to keep notes. For this form would want to collect names, if people are OK with that. Would let us go back to people later. Hard to keep track of this somewhere else. More space to put more comments. I like it! Maybe also add workshop title
    - +1 Think its pretty great way to highlight problematic sections that we can then discuss to help find a way to move forward. No matter why someone doesn't teach something, then there is a time problem or problem with this section. Means we're not teaching as intended, so then could highlight regions or modules to discuss. 
    - +1 structured way to get feedback on the fly. filing github issues are not always easy to respond to quickly.  
    - +1 like having structured feedback that is not just the issues. Need to formalize our plan for how we use this in complement with the discussion sections
    - Question: What we don't follow up surveys to see which sections are useful to the learner? This form sees what the teachers are teaching, but we also need the complement to see what the learnres are finding useful. what bits of what we teach are fun/useful but not relevant.  Answer: No, we don't have a long term survey for instructors. Kari and Tracy are working on this but its a few months away from being prepared. 
    - TT: would appreciate a big text box, just to dump notes
    - TT: also want to report if you tried something different (why, how did it go, what resources)
    - BW: like to link w/ participant feedback to corroborate with trainer feedback
    - ML: a question about timing (were you rushed, or did you have to fill space)
    - BW: sometimes you have to make a cohort-specific judgment call based on feedback --> would be good to talk about this as a group, when to move on or not
    - TT: nice to have something that you can take notes as you go instead of something you fill out at the end // maybe a spreadsheet
    - ML: data coming from different sources/tools needs to be aggregated to a folder/central location
    - BW: Still open issues?  // CLK: should make it clear that you can do either: open an issue or offer feedback in the form // ML: whether or not you open an issue could be another data point...
 - **Suggetion:** re-format the form so that you can check yes/no/maybe/unsure for each module
 - **Problems:** The form states that its about day 1 but there are sections that are from day 2. Who fills this out? One or more person together or separetly.
- **Summary:** most people support the form but there are a few kinks to work out

## (Lack of) Changes to Checkout Process
- **There are no changes for now to checkout.** 
- Clarity around communicating with trainees that they don't need to submit a *new* PR or *new* issue. Can contribute to an existing one. 
- Through all the discussions, realized more infromation was needed before making a change. 
- Update from Kari on mentoring: Mentoring group is enthusiastic about discussion sessions, and wants to continue to run and support them. They are working on getting more community members involved. 
- Update from Francois on issue tags: Creating a unified set of issue tags that can be used across all the lessons. Can track progress of issues, identify issues for first time contributors, types of issues. Should make it easier for new contributors and maintainers. Also have labels for PRs.
- Proposal: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b3nIZ6N4IHY24JmLNQ5rkwUACEVS9Hls3auzZD7zHqk/edit#heading=h.faahcd3q5xng
- maybe advertise a list of tags that would be eligible for this requirement?
- Would need a different way of tracking 'instructor checkout' if not contributing new things.
- As trainers, give guidance about how to make a contribution (esp. by leveraging the new labels, once they're live -- discussion, newcomer-friendly, etc.) (ML: helpful for new Carpentries as well, as they get started and set standards for their community)
- ML: challenging for new instructors who haven't taught yet (and won't teach for 9-12 months) to contribute to lessons
- BW: for checkout, helpful to minimize choice, give specific directions (decisions are tiring!)
- CK: have people sign up for discussion/demo at the end of training (decision made then + there)
- BW: maybe leverage calendar invitations // ML: logistical challenge, esp. for open training across time zones
- BW: having a champion/buddy to help people get across the finish line for checkout
- What if...no checkout?  
    - BW: provisional certification at end of training, full certification after some kind of checkout process
    - ML: given that these folks are volunteers, don't want to be too demanding
    - CK: what's important that instructors know (community participation, contribution, live coding); if they don't need the first two, we don't need to include them in checkout
    - BW: checkout is when they plan + teach their first workshop
    - In general: everyone likes the idea of more differentiated recognition/certification or badges


## Scheduling May-August Training events
- By tomorrow Maneesha will email all trainers with a document to fill in their availability for these months.  
- - Please complete this by Friday, March 2.  From there Maneesha will create a calendar of training events for these months and share with you by March 9. 
- See the Jan-Apr document as an example:  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1B2JZyu5MeG7rjg8edn4Rp0f8CUeWOVqEtxvXzjMqJHw/edit#gid=2130520462
