# Trainer Business Meeting

## Meeting 1

Thursday, July 26, 2018 UTC 14:00 (Karen)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20180726T14

### Attending:

* Paula Andrea Martinez
* Mark Laufersweiler s
* Amy Hodge
* Maneesha Sane

### Apologies: 

* Kari L. Jordan
* Erin Becker
* Elizabeth Wickes

## Agenda

* Topic of the Month: Meeting overhaul proposal! What do you think?
* Announcements:
	- Trainer training: Help wanted reviewing applications! Aug 9-10.
	- Highlighting accessibility: the experience at the rear of the classroom
	https://carpentries.github.io/assessment/learner-assessment/reports/2018-07-learners-pre-post-surveys.html#workshop_experience
	- Sept-Dec Training Schedule    https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hSpNgAnOJjqp1MZiXEoQP1z4CDD1s1lqpn2R9N6GD3A/edit#gid=396821285
	- Update on TTT curriculum maintainence
* Discussion:

### Topic of the Month: Meeting overhaul

* AH: I can't always make both (or either), so if we did some of each I might miss less of what's going on
* ML: his life is very meeting-intensive right now and would appreciate fewer meetings (though it's a nice reason to miss other meetings you want to attend less!)
* KW: do we find Google calendar invites useful? Most people seem to.
* Need to change the calendar info. Maneesha will fix this.
* Mark indicated you can bring Google calendars into Outlook.
* PM: The only problem is that it is not sync 
* AH: Any thoughts on which meeting was kept/tossed? 
* KW: thought we would kep the current business dates and toss the other dates.
* PM: If we do the end of the month we won't have a December meeting
* KW: She and Christina discussed that it would be important that we need to be sure we leave enough time for the discussion. Would likely need a timekeeper role. Can also ask people to sign up for the discussion portion in advance for better planning. 
* MS: Make better use of async tools. Questions from training events can be posted to slack or email list. They won't have to wait a month for responses and we can better use of time in the calls.
* ML: If you're doing a post-mortem, do a paragraph in the etherpad and then hit one highlight in person or take questions. +1 from Amy
* PM: Putting these somewhere more archivable would be nice. Etherpad is hard to look back through. 
* KW: The etherpad is archived. But not sure where it is archived.
* Needs to be findable, searchable, etc.
* PM: Some kind of blog for trainers.
* ML: Concern raised about that being too public for some of these discussions. 
* KW: Will post link to where the notes are archived after this meeting. Here it is! https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/tree/master/minutes
* KW: Has been talking to Martin who sends out the reminders for regular discussion sessions. His messages include trainer trainings -- we need to get all of us off those lists. And then ideally get a reminder that goes out just for trainers for this meeting. These are issues with AMY not that need to be resolved. Still trying to figure out if this is really going to work.
* KW: She wants to avoid confusion mainly with new trainers so that they definitely come to these meetings and aren't confused about where they should be attending meetings. If trainers stop getting the instructor discussion notices, we should include in the trainer notice to remember to sign up for instructor sessions as well if they want.
* KW: They've talked about choosing topics of the month. Possibly inviting people, though this make make the morning and afternoon sessions different.
* ML: We can go with this schedule but leave open the option to do a call for a special meeting when lots of feedback is needed or something. Prefer that to cramming a lot of stuff into a regular meeting.
* PM: Would appreciate updates on the lesson materials.
* AH: Special meetings, difficult to schedule meetings in a short time. Pre-reserve timeslots for meetings would work better for me. We just need to be sure everyone is clear what the default setting is -- that we are having it unless we say we aren't or that we aren't having it unless we say we are.
* KW: Could do this. Think the best default would be not having it unless you've gotten an announcement.

### Upcoming TT:
* KW:  There is another trainer training in September. Currently have 9 applications. Closes next Wednesday. 
* AH: I'll send the notice out on Aug. 1.
* KW: Would like help reviewing applications. She'll be sending out an email. Should be a fairly quick review. It's okay if you know someone. Not necessary to recuse yourself from commenting on applications from people you know.
* https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/07/apply-to-train/
* PM: Deadline to review? She can help after the 13th.
* KW: Deadline is the 8th. They were going to try finish by the 13th, but she'll let us know.
 
### From the assessment report: 
* KW: Some discussion about accessibility issues. Lots of comments about difficulty hearing or seeing at the back of the room. 
* ML: teaches in active learning classrooms and the podiums are in the center
* KW: Loud people often don't think they need to use the microphone. Once the room is a certain size or there is enough background chatter 
* AH: tend to highlight the use of mics, or encourage people to shift places. This can be done after lunch, beginning of day two, etc.
* MS: need to be careful about mandating that people move, since someone might have sat somewhere because they need to. Wearing lapel mics doesn't work for all clothing. There is sometimes one person for whom the size of things is not adequate but they don't want to speak up. Not sure how to address that.

### Update on the training schedule:
* MS: All the spots for trainers have been filled. May add some other events if there is a need. Most US times are Pacific and Eastern. In good shape.
* By early next week they'll be letting members know about the training dates so they can start choosing sessions. 
* ML: what happens if the only trainer available in the time zone is at the same institution. He won't be the facilitator for the cohort because he can't be present with them and teach at the same time. He'll have to get someone else to facilitate

### Update on TTT curriculum maintenance:
* KW: Trying to get important changes to curriculum to occur at regular intervals. Hold PRs until this time (the big ones, not typos) for this schedule. Every 3-4 months or so. Behind a bit on PRs because they've been spending a lot of time talking about process. 

### Discussion and Training Debriefs:
* ML: tried doing a live coding exercise of editing the workshop website template. Second time made sure they had done the import in the morning. Signed up for GitHub as part of first day homework. When they got there they did the import in the morning. Still had feedback that it moved too fast and there was too much material. Needs to better set the expectations for people. Worked better than breaking out in small groups. Had more people that seemed to actually do the exercise. Easy to zone out and not do it because it's late in day 2 and people are tired. Done remotely. This way everyone also does it themselves instead of just one person. Went a bit long. Wants to do it one more time before writing it up. 
* Session was Mixed: Online and 6 local ppl. Made it easier to help people with problems. 
* ML: Have people do one fix, save/commit, then work on another so by the time they do the second one, the first one has rendered. This helps with the slowness of this process. Also likes actually bringing a live coding exercise into the training. Hits a lot of different points and cuts down on the confusion factor. Helping them later is easier when everyone has the code in their github repo and he can see the code.
* KW: Asked Mark to file an issue to describe all of this. As to making more time for this activity, last month Sher ran some sessions where she changed the format for introductions to make it more interactive and reduced some of the activities. This is in an issue right now, not incorporated yet. But it created some time in the curriculum. 
* KW: Now thinking that discussion should go first instead of being saved unti tlhe end, as we are running up against the end of the meeting.  +1 from ML and MS
* KW: At Davis, the official trainers were Anelda and Sher. And Raina dropped in, so there were 4 there sometimes. Raina was interacting with etherpad and proposing social events at end of day. Helping out with groups. She did a lot of notetaking. Now thinks a helper might be good for instructor training. 
    * Etherpad:    http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2018-06-25-DIBSI
* They had a bunch of seats and wanted to fill them. They filled many of them with teaching faculty from Cal State schools. Many of them might not check out. We don't have the bandwidth to really be doing this for people who won't become instructors, but it's nice. They liked it.
* MS: It's hard to have a helper, since we're really maxed out. Maybe like regular workshops, the helper doesn't need to be a trainer. 
* AH: perhaps they can be certified instructors
* ML: they can be timekeepers (lots of +1s on this point!) and keep tabs on the room, who is participating and who is not, facilitating. Agrees that they don't need to be trainers.
* PM: Likes the idea of having a helper. She was present as a third instructor at an online training, but didn't really feel like she had room to interact.
* MS: yes, we'd want to make sure the helpers have clear roles.
* ML: trainers are used to working in pairs. need to talk ahead of time and define the helper space. 
* KW: you need the trainer in charge to let you know what they need and want you to and how they want things to work. Do they want to know about time via slack or the chat window, etc.

## Meeting 2

Thursday, July 26, 2018 UTC 22:00 (Erin) FRIDAY AUS/NZ

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20180726T22

### Attending:

* Karen Word   
* Erin Becker
* Murray Cadzow
* Belinda Weaver
* Rayna Harris

### Apologies: 

* Kari L. Jordan

## Agenda
* Topic of the Month: Meeting overhaul proposal! What do you think?
* Announcements:
	- Trainer training: Help wanted reviewing applications! Aug 9-10.
	- Highlighting accessibility: the experience at the rear of the classroom
	https://carpentries.github.io/assessment/learner-assessment/reports/2018-07-learners-pre-post-surveys.html#workshop_experience
	- Sept-Dec Training Schedule    https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hSpNgAnOJjqp1MZiXEoQP1z4CDD1s1lqpn2R9N6GD3A/edit#gid=396821285
	- Update on TTT curriculum maintainence


### Discussion

* Karen: Get down to one meeting a month.
* Positive in earlier meeting to have just the one, but maybe we will need another meeting at some points, e.,g releases. Have a placeholder time for the meeting.
* Debriefs: 
    - Format of the meeting: Topic of the month, announcements in the middle, reserve time for discussion at the end. 
    - Kept to time and maybe we need a timekeeper. Still ran into the end. Topic of the month should be at the end and make sure discussions get heard. Anthing missed can go via email.
	- Important to try to get people to sign up in advance. Helps planning if we n=know how many will come.
* Remove emails being sent to trainers inviting them to mentorship discussions. Clear clean signal to sign up for our training. 
	- +1 from Belinda, Erin. Erin likes having discussions not last thing. +1 from Murray too.

* Inviting people - have to show up to both meetings or find a sub speaker. 
	* Erin: Invite different people? 
	* Invite 2 people and then flip for next time.

Just set up the topic and ask people to contribute. 

What topic is sufficiently exciting?

Topics they have struggled with teching, or new stuff that has been added and illuminating how it can be used. 

Karen: Holding PRs for incremental updates, and waiting until people have dicussed and polished. Summarise the PRs, use them as the topic, review the changes. 

* Belinda: Like that idea - present the new material to the meeting, explain the changes and the whys.
* Karen: Raising things that 
* Belinda: How can we make the boring informative stuff more interactive?
* Erin: make it a pop quiz - but not expected to know answers
* Karen: see that idea added as an issue
* Belinda: presented the Carpentries as a concept map for people to contribute to

OK, Karen will adjust calendar

Another ttrainer training in September - putting out a call via email for help with review. August 9th and 10th
Expect to review - seven so far, but 30 last time

* Fair number of people reporting accessibility issues - back of the room. Emphasise more heavily in accessibility. Font size, visibility, wifi, visual and audio. 
* Karen: Use the microphone! helper conversations make a lot of noise. Don't want to wear them.
* Make it a role for helpers - get to the back of the room and evulate the visibility and audibility.
* Asking people to move aorund on day 2 so not stuck in a bad place. But some people get territorial ...


* Belinda: add Australai/NZ to the spreadsheet, 
* Murrary; Strange not to have Aus/NZ on the spreadsheet. Visibility would be good.
* Erin: Will get it updated - can be fixed. Not good to marginalise Aus/NZ trainers

Karen: Davis training debrief
* Interesting. Taught a little bit. Consumed by other stuff. Anelda and Sher as primary instructors, and Rayna also came too.
* Fantastic to have a helper, etherpad, taking notes, making etherpad live. went round, talked to group, socialise, etc. 
* Belinda: Can second that - used a helper at workshop in Macquarie with Jonah. Fantastic to have the help. Also when there were three trainers at Monash, the extra was useful. Gave feedback to the new trainer, helped keep to time, butt in if things were dragging. 
* Murrary: With Jonah and Aleksandra the first time - great to have their experience. Taught about a third. 
* Maybe ask instructors to attend with a veiw towards teaching it. 
* Rayna: Really love the instructor training workshop CarpentryConnect workflow - pieces all fit together. went magical. Taught a lot of things and parctices that didn't get demonstrated and utilised in a workshop. None of the instructors had taught. Can't show all the things being taught. 
* Karen: Instructor training and immeidately followed with workshops, straight into teaching, tiring, brought out conversations about nuts and bolts, how to manage screens, and other practical stuff. Checkouts the same week. Demo checkouts in person. 
* Erin: not invovled with training but taught with new instructors, exciting. Got sick and asked instructor to take over. Took over at half an hour's notice. Thinking a lot about formative assessment. Noticed when there weren't enough.
* Rayna: Go straight to helping, and surprised how engaged they were with helping. 
* Helper post: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/07/helper.html
* Maybe add Karen's helper list to Handbook - raise that for next meeting.
* Worth noting Sher did innovating with introductions - now raised on issues, worked well. What would they put in an introduction? Create more room for workshop website section. 
* Karen: anything to add on meeting structure.
* Rayna: Alternate weeks rather than two weeks on, two weeks off.
* Rayna +1 to placeholder timeslot

    
 

