# Trainer Discussion Meeting Thursday, April 05, 2018

## Attending:

**1st meeting**
- Lex Nederbragt - Oslo - Norway (I can say something about 2018-02-28-ttt-online that Allegra Via and I taught together)
- Sher! 
- Elizabeth
- Kari L. Jordan
- Amy Hodge
- Mark Laufersweiler 
- Christina Koch
- Karin Lagesen
- Maneesha Sane

**2nd meeting**
- Danielle Quinn
- Rayna Harris
- Erin Becker

## recent trainings

### Lex: and Allegra:  Online, open
https://lexnederbragt.github.io/2018-05-28-online-ttt/ (it was actually 2018-02-28 but I managed to use the wrong month for the repo ????
- first time taught new curriculum, fully online (no one in the same room), people from North America, Europe, Africa, Australia, India (people putting in all kinds of bazaar hours!). Zoom worked well, breakout rooms are great. Had two observers who have just completed trainer training. Used google docs instead of etherpad. Asked observers to time things, for example, and it was valuable for them to see the training. Google docs worked well; allows tables and figures. Loose coloring, but that is not bad. It got sluggish after a bit. Allegra had really beautiful slides that made us think about making a common slide deck. 
- Kristina: last time used slides, worried that they were not engaging.
- Lex: not sure how the learners felt about it, and it did add more 'juggling'. 
- Lex: found a website that has a timer that countsdown for the breaks and put that on his screen so that people can see how much time they have left
- Sher!: got feedback in her training that people wanted to see slides! Google slides would be great. With the juggling, Kari put all the stuff into the etherpad, etc...so that Sher! could just teach (and Sher! will be able to do the same for co-instructor next time :)
- Maneesha: also gone back and forth on using slides. Easy to feel disconnected during online event.
- Mark: Slides are a good idea, have started using slides to outline the goals of a section and for all the figures as a minimal slide deck. Also, in online training co-teachers have felt that if they are not teaching they do not need to be there, but maybe that is not the case. There are all kinds of things that would be helpful to have the other trainer engaged. 
- Maneesha: yes, and then the co-trainer knows exactly what has been done when it is their turn to teach.
- Amy: Lex, when you shared this timer during breakouts?
- Lex: during breaks. One drawback of the breakout rooms is that they close in 60 seconds, cannot change that. Drawback of google docs and etherpad, google docs template is more out of date than the etherpad, so we need to update this (manually for now). With breakout rooms, sometimes the groups do not get started right away. Maybe designate someone to start the discussion in each group? Also, maybe we should have a confidentiality statement about what goes on in the workshops/trainings. 
- Amy: on google docs and etherpads, these documents are not very locked down. So we should clarify that things that people say should not be shared further, but we can't guaruntee that the google doc/etherpads won't be seen by other people.
- Maneesha: I copy the names of all the participants into each question (to avoid confusion and track attendance) and note that this is something that will be on the web and not to write anything down they are not comfortable with.
- Lex: In the section about 'where have you been demotivated' a trainee realized that THEY were the demotivator, and had that realizatio
- **All our notes:** https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IPpiB3fDJxam0OIBxzzZwIuqVqoiXH78uwLmnyRdXIE/edit#


### Sher online
https://sheraaron.github.io/2018-04-02-ttt-online/

- Kari: it was a bit rough. I was suprised when we talked about the code of conduct, there was a group that were not satisfied with the code of conduct reporting; are the members of the code of conduct lawyers? Who is Cam and why was he chosen? If I email how will you help me? Etc...so we talked about how it is up to the host and they always have the option to leave if you don't feel safe. Wondered why they were so concerned and the discussion was very long. They offered some suggestions for code to make it more clear, like how people are selected to the committee, etc...
- Maneesha: Given the consulting being done what will be changing.
- Mark: +1 to most of what everyone did. In training with Sue, she was in a position where she might loose internet intirely. Maybe we should build in a back-up? Don't want staff to always have to be the back-ups.
- Maneesha: we do have the calendars up now, people could agree to be the stand-by for however many events. Will look into scheduling and availability of trainers.

## Amy and Karen:  inperson, member site
https://karenword.github.io/2018-03-26-Davis-tt
- Christina: maybe we could incorporate this into checkout; take the place of discussion. 
- Maneesha: that does make sense, think when Anelda has done this she has expanded the workshop to be 2.5 to 3 days long.



## Mark:  all member sites, but one site was semi-distributed
https://oulib-swc.github.io/2018-03-12-ttt-onlin
- Mark: a lot of the same experiences as people above. Missed the numbers on the etherpad when using google docs. Some of the sections got really big, so even the table of contents was not as useful as would have been nice. We had 3 groups, and the 3rd group was a consortium so their group was in 3 different places, but paired up so they could do their breakouts with each other. We had 3 time zones, so for the East Coast the morning break became very important because long time before lunch. We should think of this ahead of time, warn certian time zones that they should bring snacks. Also with timers, setting them, and letting learners know that it is ok to interrupt instructors (who get excited) to remind that it is time for a break. We had a very involved discussion on code of conduct, similar to Kari/Sher in that people were concerned about reporting. So +1 to pointing that out. Think this is starting to become a more important topic to craft. We also emphasize the role of the host. As much as we would love to think The Carpentries can do something, but they are not physically there. Make that a serious thing when the host signs up and make them aware of the issues they could run into. The pre-copying of peoples' names is a great trick. 2nd online training, starting to get comfortable, or to have things make some sense. Love zoom! Breakout issue was that one or two of the learners didn't show up on the list for the breakout rooms, had to get them to log out and log back in to show up. 

- Kari: calling on people; got feedback in minute cards that they understood why, but that it was scary. How else to get people engaged? 
- Mark: when all learners are in their own space, not sure how to make that happen. But with local groups, maybe the host can be the person who calls on people because they are not a stranger. Maybe we could prepare them by saying that I will be calling on people who have not spoken yet.
- Amy: Hopefully by doing small groups, questions on the etherpad, etc...that they are engaged and participating enough. Also, either for instructor training or code of conduct, with the host or organizer being there. As a host, would not be able to sit there for two days, so the host may not be there to help deal with code of conduct issues. Not sure that relying on the host...have not seen it stated anywhere that hosts need to be at the workshop the whole time. May pop in a couple times, but doing other things! Don't think we can assume, at this point, that the host is around.
- Karin: chairing the code of conduct policy at the moment, and I also don't think we can rely on the host because we can't depend on them always being there. Also, this is a Carpentries workshop, so any complaints go to our brand, so to speak. So this is hosted by somebody, but it is our event, and we need to keep our house in order in that aspect.
- Elizabeth: idea for getting people to speak; tell them they need to contribute twice (keep track) so they are prepared and can choose when they contribute rather than being called on. 

## Bug BBQ April 12-13: 

if there are specific ways for trainers to be involved will send around email next week (targeted tasks or be around certian times of day, etc....)
    
    
## Mentoring Groups: 
https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/mentoring-groups/README.
- Kari: third round of mentoring groups begins next week, page with the outline is above. We will let people (especially mentees) to be added to the group because there are a couple of time zones in which there are no mentees. Please talk about mentoring groups in your upcoming trainings because they help people connect to the community and become more active faster. 
- Current mentoring groups: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentoring-groups

### Erin - South Africa
Erin - taught at a public library in Anelda's home town. Poor internet. Etherpad wouldn't load. Very stressful. In the US, lots of people will bash Etherpad, but everyone stayed calm and asked to move forward without worrying about it. 


## future trainings
- Erin teaching April 24th and 25th. 
- Francois teaching mid-May. Not yet 
- Rayna - will follow up with maneesha and sue about upcoming workshop in June
- Danielle - at the end of April doing training with Compute Canada. Don't know the details of their partnership

## Spanish community
Rayna and Erin will meet to discuss how to move forward with more lesson translations

