# Trainers' Meeting

## Meeting 1

Thursday, November 1, 2018 UTC 14:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time:https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20181101T14

### Workshop discussion signup:
* Amy Hodge
* Alexander Konovalov
* Aleks Nenadic

### Others attending:
* Kate Hertweck
* Elizabeth Williams
* Mark Lafuersweiler 
* Aleks Nenadic
* Karen Word
* Neal Davis / UIUC
* Maneesha Sane
* Sher!

### Discussion

Amy: 

* Just did a live, in-person training at Stanford (part of membership)
* Unique set up
	- had instructors help via zoom
	- all participants were in one room (15)
	- found it kind of weird to be using etherpad when they were all in person
* Day 2
	- did revised version of "putting it all together" -- made a concept map instead of using the provided handout
	- were able to identify different themes of the workshop
* Technology is hard. :P

Question: Are there sections that work better as "drop-in" via zoom // are generally easier to teach online?  

Alex (helper) / Aleks (trainer)

Alex:
- I'd recommend to all new trainers to come to some training as an observer. --> more relaxing, makes it easier to pick things up
- I think we can advise that having a helper on an online training is quite useful, since the trainer can not physically pay attention to the chat and list of participants in Zoom when they present. --> there are some comments about this in the revamped instructor's notes: https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/guide/index.html
- if you teach an audience where some people are together in the same site, and some - alone in different locations, allocate breakout rooms manually rather than automatically.  Try to know before the training who will be in the same room.
- tell in advance that there will be a homework after day 1, and provide an estimate of the time it may take --> just to manage expectations, be clear upfront
- again the question of the necessity of the mindset quiz pops in. Maybe suggest to provide a link to it, so people may take it in their time, but don't do it as an exercise?
- This time, Google docs was running better than from my previous experience (last time it was terribly slo-o-o-o-w). Still, sometimes everyone tries 60to enter text at the same time in the same line. Maybe give some advise how to cope with this when doing this for the first time (same for etherpad)? --> adding some notes to instructor notes; maybe can add more notes about etherpad vs google docs.  
- Some attendees may not know keyboard shortcuts for quick switch between windows (zoom <-> browser).
- Advise that besides a good internet connection, it will be useful (although not required) to have 2nd screen, so one can see Zoom on one and Google doc in another
- emphasise that the Zoom chat is not preserved, so it will disappear next time you will connect.
Recommendation from Sher: have everyone log in individually (even if people are at the same site) and only share the mic if they're in the same room

Question: recommendations for etherpad vs Google Doc?
- for line numbers in Google Doc: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/line-numbers-for-google-d/mblodabbcapnkgcfnddfpfaamjckjlik?hl=en
- create multiple for each day (no matter which you use)
- paste in a list of participants for exercises

### Announcements
* Welcome Kate!
* Library Carpentry Demo checkouts
* RFC for Discussion checkout requirement: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/71

### Topic of the Month: Curriculum Updates!

https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/

Nov 10 (ish) will be merged back to main repo & will update etherpad template

Feedback still needed!
* Do you agree with these as "optional" exercises: https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pull/20
* What would YOU call the episodes: https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pull/18

Food for thought: how to handle questions that come up
- have a "parking lot" to accumulate questions over the training, not just as the homework
- don't ask people to come up with questions for the homework

## Meeting 2

Thursday, November 1, 2018 UTC 22:00 (Karen) FRIDAY AUS/NZ

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20181101T22

### Workshop Discussion Time Signup:

### Others attending:
* Kari L. Jordan
* Murray Cadzow
* Jeff Oliver (only until 22:20)
* Rayna Harris

## Discussion of past/upcoming workshops: 

(Jeff is running one at U. Arizona, 2018-11-15, per agreement between Carpentries & UA) <-- do you have any questions for prepping?
No questions, but if anyone wants to zoom in for an afternoon or morning to take a session, I welcome volunteers. :)
:)

### Announcements:
* Library Carpentry Demo checkouts
	* stay tuned for promsing starting points for demos
	* Once we have them, will add to the handbook ( https://github.com/carpentries/handbook/issues/295 )
	* hope to have a "about LC" talk from Chris to get other trainers up to speed
* RFC for Discussion checkout requirement: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/71
	* main challege hard to meet the demand
	* plan to take comments til Nov 5
	* will continue hosting discussions as in through rest of the year
	* Jan 1 would be the time to implement any new decisions
	* new community engagement lead and the instructor development committee can help with the decision making
	* discusson-host onboarding _was_ quite useful for recruiting hosts. will incorporate more of these
	* suggestion: can we set aside slots for specific workshops could help with sustainability

### Topic of the month: Curriculum Updates! 

https://data-lessons.github.io/instructor-training/

* overview of changes
* got through half of what we hoped to accomplish
* yea! this is a big accomplishment!
* energy and cohernce of day 2 should be better
* will NOT be merged at least until Nov 10 to allow current workshops to proceed as is
* summary of things
	* major change was reorg of day 2
	* add back blooms taxonony
	* added back reverse instructional design (but focused on process of prepareing to teach a workshops rather than simply reverse design)

comments: there is no current plan for publishing the cirricula but it would be nice to publish a version once checkout has been revamped. this could be the "2019 addition"

naming is a big thing we want feedback on: 
https://github.com/data-lessons/instructor-training/pull/18