# Trainer's Meeting - September

## Meeting 1

Thursday, September 6, 2018 UTC 14:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time:https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20180906T14

### Instructor Training Workshop Discussion Signup:

* Amy Hodge
* Karen Word

### Others attending

* Mark Laufersweiler 
* Aleks Nenadic
* Fotis Psomopoulos
* Kari L. Jordan
* Maneesha Sane
* Sher!
* François Michonneau
* Naupaka Zimmerman
    

## Debrief: 

Amy (1st meeting)
* In person at Northwestern (7 people) w/ Elizabeth
* started late due to commute problems + small group, were behind all day
* challenge of modified curriculum, back and forth
* group talked a lot

Online member training w/ Erin
* non time-zone site had challenges with timing
* challenges of group audio, especially in one site
* was easier to have material broken into larger sections
* Content-wise: more practice time (?)

Notes

* Agree with the issues with the commute in multiple online groups (we had an occation where people actually didn't manage to get in the teleconferencing room as well). One resolution to this would be to have a local contact / organizer for the training event, so that a single person is in charge of maintaining this "order".
* +1 I could be sure as the Workshop Admin, to ensure they understand the time zones, especially when the instructors and learners are in a different time zone.
* As part of the Zoom Test, we do check to ensure that there is only one mic being used and the individual laptops are muted. Zoom check should include at least one of the instructors as well. 
* Question from Maneesha - you talked about how you and Elizabeth had very different teaching styles at the inperson event, and that may have made things a little bumpy, and you weren't sure if she had a similar experience.  
* Do you (and Trainers in general) do any prepping beyond just noting the scheudule, who's teaching what module?  Any debreifing between Trainers after the event?  I have suggested and have done at least a debreif right at the end before we sign off as trainers. I've normally debriefed at the end of each day and during lunchtime with my co-instructor
* I know I usually haven't done this but this may be useful to incorporate in our planning.

* For the issue with room audio - Sher does a test run of the Zoom set up for each site before the event, and she asks them to be in the same room with the same equipment as the event itself... but that doesn't always happen :-( @Sher!: does the Zoom check include troubleshooting audio with more than one computer logged in? No it does not always. Sometimes if there are multiple persons doing the test. 
* Prep and event: Each group shoud have a room facilitor at the location who is not participating in the workshop but who can manage the room tech. They can run the pre check and need to be at the event to handle any issues that may arise during the event.
* As part of the pre-check, set a time for when the host should have heard from at least one of the instructors and what to do if that communincartion has not occured. (maybe when building the schedule, designate which of the instructors is the lead?) 

Aleks (here some issues I experienced the last two times I did instructor training, both online):
* people complain about us not commenting about all of their concepts maps and expecting feedback - we did not make it clear this is a pair excercise and also not for us to comment on the correctness of concept maps at all
* using google docs - cannot cope with too many people, docs is too large, images get inserted - maybe going back to Etherpad next time I teach
* one partner site lost the Internet connection completely for an hour - not even sure how we recovered from that
* I prefer when people connect individually rather than a group of people talking in a room - cannot tell people’s faces, names +1 to that. The downside is that it's much more convenient to have group exercises with pen and paper.+1 I encourage this during the Zoom test
* my connection from home was intermitent too (lucklily mainly when my co-trainer was teaching) - I was panicking - thinking of coming to work next time I do it online to make sure internet is faster and more consistent
* make sure you tell people schedule is tentative so they do not complain when we run a bit over time and then catch up. Also, it's good to let people know that we might change the schedule or opt to leave out something. Some people get kind of upset if we don't go in the exact order or are afraid they are really missing out on something if we skip a section for time or in favor of doing something else. Yes, so true, even when you do mention this is going to be the case! There was a comment from Maneesha in the chat that we shoud keep to the coffee break/lunch times - I agree to that, and it is important for people to know how the day will be structured. Sometimes we do overrun by 10-15 minutes due to various reasons.

What to do if you lose someone for an hour? 

## Announcements:
   -  October will be curriculum maintenance month! Bring your issues, start working on your favorite PRs. More at our next meeting!
   -  Teaching demos -- help learners get off on the right foot by making sure they get a positive demo experience and useful feedback! Small time commitment, big impact. Sign up today!  https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos
   -  Open Instructor Training applications: changes to AMY will help us score box-checking items automatically, leaving only free-response items to score. Will be looking for a team to review applications on a rolling basis. More at our next meeting!

## Discussion: 

Avoiding cognitive overload — for Instructors and Trainers! One of the challenges of teaching is managing your attention so that you can both focus on what you are doing and actively listen, think about, & respond to the thoughts and experiences of your learners. How do you manage this in the context of an instructor training? How can we advise our learners to manage this in their own classrooms? Bring your tips, tricks, and anecdotes to share!

* Follow along with how people are learning when you're not officially teaching (esp. using chat/google docs when online)
* Book recommendation: https://www.amazon.com/Hitting-Pause-Lecture-Reinforce-Learning/dp/1620366533/ -- creating reflective pauses
* Take mini-breaks -- let's just stop and have a mental break, once an hour (if there's not a major break)
* Be intentional about the time when learners are working on exercises (not just circulate, but ask yourself who haven't you heard from, go through their names, etc.)

Scope - Time - Cost --> Scope - Time - Responsivity 
* Time is usually fixed, but the more responsive you are (following up w/ students interest), the more you may limit the scope
* Easier to be flexible when you're familiar with the material -- you know what to focus on, what to omit.  Reduces cognitive overload

## Meeting 2

Thursday, September 6, 2018 UTC 22:00 (Karen) FRIDAY AUS/NZ

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20180906T22

### Instructor Training Workshop Discussion Signup:

* Karen Word
* Erin Becker
* Murray Cadzow
* Rayna Harris
* Alejandra Gonzalez-Beltran (I will aim to join at this time, even if late for me, as I cannot make the previous slot)

### Others attending:
* Belinda Weaver
    
## Discussion

Erin taught with Amy Hodge, online for 3 sites. All signed in individually -- good in terms of being able to see people and call on them. Was difficult because one of the rooms didn't have a conference system for a centralized microphone. Constant battle of muting -- time consuming but not too terrible. DIdn't work to have one person designated to keep audio on. First time pretty much everyone had either taught or helped at a workshop. Interesting to see how some of th exercises assume that people dont have experience. Had to change the way this was discussed.

Murray had a training at Otago. 9 people, (10 signed up but one sick). In person event. Co-taught with Mik and Jonah. Went well! Mixture of people who had only been exposed through ResBaz in july plus old hands who had helped out prior, maybe 50/50 split. Seemed to work really well. Already knew pretty much everyone there -- one person had come over for a conference from Chicago. Otherwise all local and knew them well. 
* Erin: Questions for Murray: what was the hardest thing and what was different between the two?
*  Main difference is first one had a really nice lecture room setup. Every desk had a big monitor, set up for video conference etc. Most recent was just a big room with a good projector. Firs tone was really nice, second was just standards. Hardest thing was remembering all the content and keeping track of where people were, time management. Ran overtime, had to cut back on other things. Managed to get all the content that was really needed. 
* Re time management: Amy and Erin had lots of things they had to cut. Could you share what you cut?
* M: Hard to remember! 3 trainers. Full explanations cut, summarized rather than dropping any particular thing. Tried to emphasize discussion, but that tended to go too long, so dropped some of the exercises because they had been semi-covered as discussion already.
* E: Building teaching skill lesson study (mishmash) have skipped many times. Always end up skipping faded examples. Have other practice right before that. Cut back quite a bit on Mindset, specifically on Grit, perseverence and habits of lifelong learners.
* Rayna skips totally the opposite. Talked about mindset, grit, imposter syndrome, had a really great discussion. Currently frustrated with the way the three things are broken down into separate episodes because the most important thing of lesson study is Never Teach alone, give each other feedback. One of the core things. Buried in an episode, hard to find. Not under the one called lesson study. 

Raynas workshop: With Sue, organized remote training. Chile, Peru, Argentina. Greg, Alejandra, Paula also involved. Ended up with 30 people. Wanted to quit so many times -- short on instructors, short on learners. Section on Grit was really meaningful -- share a time you wanted to quit but didnt. First two people didnt' want to show up today but did. Reading through that resonated, felt like crying. 

Belinda mostly skips because of time. If you think youre' not going to get there, you have to jump over things. If you get a feeling from the people you're teaching that theyr'e not engaging, that''s a reason to skip ahead too. Lesson study: where the challenge is only a coding type challenge and people are not coders.

Can we have activities without coding
* Murray: two librarians who were not coders struggled to use the examples in their workshop.
* Belinda: Downward dog as faded example!!
* Karen: also had problem with Library Carpentry instructor training.
* Rayna: Can we get ride of the 3rd multiple choice question in the welcome episode?
* Erin: There has been lots of back and forth about whether you need to be ready to teach the curriculum when you attend the instructor training. This is the historical baggage -- has been an expectation that people have background to teach workshops. Would be in favor of multiple examples, maybe a click selection box, group examples relevant to different groups.

Rayna other comments on training: went well. Problem is that nobody is comfortable speaking English and needs help running Spanish speaking discussions. Definitely need demos. We have spanish lessons, we need spanish demos. Dont' like asking for help -- Erin!
* Erin: There are 3 new trainers who are native spanish speakers. Just starting training next week. May not be comfrotable doing demos yet, but maybe discussions. Not required...  would be nice to invite them. Assume you have a list of current Trainers who are spanish speakers? Erin will send this list.
* Rayna: 30 people at the training event. 1 demo session in Spanish. Need to be able to email that whole group with info on how to complete their training. They cant and its on us, not them. 
* Fully remote, mix of rooms with good wifi/mic, a few others with more difficulty. Two people tried to show up on their phone, somehow failed to articulate that? Thought we did? Aside from that it went well. Yesterday, was in Buenos Aires and on Tuesday gave a 20-minute lightning talk about the Carpentries in Spanish. Original plan for event was to give an R Carpentry workshop, because it was a Latin R conference. First two people were like, everyone knows R, no one will come. SO did a 3-hour instructor training! Highlights. One part a little rough (too busy to practice quite enough). Made it very clear this was not an official event. But very cool! Even 10 minutes that were terrible, there were 25 people who did at least 3 little breakout things -- one write a mental model of some R code. Explain some R code to a neighbor. Had photographers chatting in the room, all very enthusiastic, want someone to come to Costa Rica. More and more requests for instructor trainings in Latin America. Can only do so many! Can we get some money to support this from ROpenSci or RStudio? Sent a handful of RStudio people to promote Spanish things... 
* Erin: Love the idea of doing more in-person workshops for Latin American audiences. Also wonder if we can have more online specifically in Spanish now that we have (just sent list) of 9 Spanish speaking trainers. Could potentially do one every 6 months or something. Time zones have to work out (some in UK). Were recruited for Spanish expertise. 

## Announcements:
-  October will be curriculum maintenance month! Bring your issues, start working on your favorite PRs. More at our next meeting!
-  Teaching demos -- help learners get off on the right foot by making sure they get a positive demo experience and useful feedback! Small time commitment, big impact. Sign up today!  https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos
-  Open Instructor Training applications: changes to AMY will help us score box-checking items automatically, leaving only free-response items to score. Will be looking for a team to review applications on a rolling basis. More at our next meeting!
- New Trainees may be visiting your demos & trainings soon!
    
## Topic

Avoiding cognitive overload — for Instructors and Trainers! One of the challenges of teaching is managing your attention so that you can both focus on what you are doing and actively listen, think about, & respond to the thoughts and experiences of your learners. How do you manage this in the context of an instructor training? How can we advise our learners to manage this in their own classrooms? Bring your tips, tricks, and anecdotes to share!
    
Belinda: Doesn't really have a problem with this. Really into teaching -- on all the time. Can use co-trainer as someone who might prompt you. If you've got two, checking in with your co-trainer to give them permission to jump in if you skip something or forget something. When not training, I tend to take notes and not but in, but never mind when someone else buts in. The hardest thing is when the room isnt' engaging and you really have to try to do something.

Rayna: Love remote training because always have side monitor and laptop and notes and never forget anything. Its' in person training when you regret not having two computers. Always need 2 computers? Don't' like using phone, feels like appearance of texting even though you're looking at notes.

Erin: same experience with the phone, tell them specifically that youre looking at notes

Belinda: paper notes! With highlighting. Would never use phone. 

Murray second paper notes. Love using those. 

Belinda: always have laptop projecting. Etherpad. Paper notes for curriculum. Notion of helper might be useful for etherpad management, good for instructors who might like to be Trainers. Good to discuss at a future meeting. 

* Rayna: haven't 'read the handbookd for a while. Does it talk about lead/non lead instructor during workshop? Personal preference is biased. Wander the room if not up at the front. Have to help, walk around and check on people. When teaching and co-instructor isnt' helping, this is frustrating. Do we should we can we articulate expectations during workshop for non-instructor?
* Erin: for instructor training, or what we should be telling people at events about regular workshops? 
* Rayna: all of the above. Especially TTT where there are no helpers. 
* Erin: this has been a really longstanding issue for people wanting to tell non-teaching instructors what to do. There is an olllld issue in the repo on this. Fertile ground for updating curriculum. Personally do the same thing you do, act as a helper for regular workshops. For instructor training, all of the ones online generally coordinate with the co-trainer that will be doing emails and am logged in and available if called upon. 20% on. Very different -- can't' be walking around looking at screens. Definitely need more guidance.
* Co-instructors are the answer to things you cant' pay attention to. But how do you coordinate with them? Pace, loudness, how to have that conversation about HOW to break in, when its' ok, the agony of whether to interrupt in a certain way mid-workshop is tough.

* Rayna: back to question about removing coding problems... at the same time there are always requests ""I wanted more advice on how to teach coding!" Other than drop-down menus... would there be a module... specific to SWC or DC or specific workshops?
* Lesson-specific onboarding might help with this? Geospatial & other DC workshops are so specific that we are starting a pilot onboarding 1-hour that will give an extra badge in AMY, gives priority status when applying to teach particular workshops. 43 people signed up! When we release a workshop signup for that workshop, these people will be given priority status. Next few months will do for genomics, social sciences, possibly others. 
* Murray: extra badges -- will that become a requirement in general? 
* Erin: eventually. Right now we're piloting it, so don't know when. Possibly won't be if pilot doesnt go well. There will be warning, and people will have opportunity to do onboarding. Looking at ways to make it available asynchronously. Can watch video and get badge. Idea is that medium to long term (mid to end next year?) becomes a requirement. 
* Rayna:  too many requirements/things?
* Erin: May end up replacing discussions as requirement. May not be an additional thing.
