


# Trainer meeting, 15 December 2022  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T14) 

**Attending** 



*  Alycia Crall (she/her), The Carpentries
*  Sarah Brown (she/her) University of Rhode Island
*  Yani (she/her), rOpenSci
*  Pao Corrales (she/her)
*  Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
*  Karen Word (she/her), The Carpentries
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him/his)
* Maneesha Sane / any pronouns / The Carpentries  
*  Sher! / she/her / The Carpentries
*  Nathaniel Porter (he/him), Virginia Tech
*  Annajiat Alim Rasel

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: Alycia Crall


## **Agenda**:



### Introductions Warmup: what are you looking forward to over the holidays?
### Announcements:
* self-nominations form is open for the 2023 Trainers Leadership Committee ("TLC")! [https://forms.gle/dyXnnsqTcvUs2pem9](https://forms.gle/dyXnnsqTcvUs2pem9)
* Open through 17 January; good time to reach out to people who might be interested and have space for this kind of work in the new year
* workbench version of curriculum is in pre-beta here: [https://preview.carpentries.org/instructor-training/](https://preview.carpentries.org/instructor-training/)
* Kari and Danielle are teaching from it today at an in-person event
* please test, play, etc!
* github repo here: [https://github.com/fishtree-attempt/instructor-training](https://github.com/fishtree-attempt/instructor-training)
* any changes will be lost when beta phase begins 6 Feb
* just a sandbox for now until 6 February so can make any changes you want
* [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396)
* provides timeline for beta
* Recommended changes to Checkout have been approved by Trainers Leadership
* [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226)
* Shared in communications channels; last step in process is to figure out how to implement it
### Report from Trainers Leadership
* Sarah will be reporting to Executive Council
* have to report to EC as a committee twice a year; little late this time but most recent report is done
* drawing more attention to Trainer's community; meeting topics, created form for submitting topics
* spent time with Trainer Certification renewal; put time and care into this 
* supported checkout process review and updates to rubrics for reviewing open instructor trainings for individuals who want to do Centrally organised workshops
* Report is in GitHub repository: [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2022-10-report-to-ec.md](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2022-10-report-to-ec.md)
### Q&A 
* Yani: how long/hard/tricky to check for renewal of trainee?
* Sarah: first is that Core Team did most of the processing and not sure how much time Karen and Maneesha put into it, but likely not more than we did; stuff they did might be reusable
* Went through groups of people that Maneesha pulled together through survey
* Spent most time on thinking about how the decision is made this time and how we make it better next time; what do we do today and what does that mean for later? have not polished it up yet; anonymized as much as we could but some people identified themselves in responses
* Report has numbers in there; 35%...; 35% renewed with additional self-reported activities (approved without further followup); last 30% were followup and most chose alumni status b/c they wanted it or they didn't respond to anyone
* Yani: Any pattern on what can be automated?
* Sarah: not in my head, but it's written down somewhere 
* Karen: from Core Team side, want to automate things as much as we can and make the process sustainable; want to do as much of the work as possible to make for straightforward decision making among leadership; prepare list and make recommendations
* Karen: think about nature of this group; don't see huge attendance at this meeting reflects a lot of what is going on in the community right now; have been transparent in an official way; not sure people know why this group is important and why it matters; why this kind of work matters? what is important about TLC?
* Pao: we love teaching and reflecting on how we teach and why we do what we do while teaching; as a community, we also need to make decisions and keep things organised and do housekeeping; 80 people making decisions is difficult so need some kind of structure / governance to work as a community and that is why Trainer leadership is important
* Sarah: agree with what Pao said; Karen is great but she is one person; Karen could make decisions on her own but when making decisions that affect a lot of people, need to have more perspectives; good to discuss strategy with community and what will allow us to scale and what will allow for us to stay a community; keeping a sense of community is a new problem and needs a new structure
* Mark: What Sarah said is what I was going to talk about; was with this group before Carpentries merged; when trainers met, leaders met; goes to scaling issue; with growth, how do you keep transparency and openness that was there with the small group and extend it to larger group. Coming up with a new structure and communication keeps growing and something I enjoy about the meetings is that I don't have to prepare things and I can read about things that interest me later. Good thing about Carpentries is that [zhian missed this]. :1:1 relationships have always been key to recruitment and relationships, people are here to help, you aren't on your own. We need to modify our expectations, things don't change as fast as they used to and that's because we want everyone to have a voice. Opening up to the world, bringing in Trainers from new areas is exciting.
* Yani: Agree with several things Mark said especially for people have been part of the organisation for several years; am fairly new so not sure hwo things worked previously, was always The Carpentries; one of the things happening in community in general is rethinking about how people participate and what motivations are to participate; this discussion about labor and what you get from volunteering; don't have answers but when I think about why I participate, it's doing things together; doing it alone, never going to achieve what you can achieve working with other people; tried to be on leadership position (1) understand organistion is different way when you are needing to make decisions, better understand challenges and why decisions are made (2) to give back and have a voice there and try to bring my view that I can share with other people; has to do with working in common supporting well being of enture community; to do this for free is privilege; how do we communicate this and how do we explain the advantage of doing this is at individual and community level; both are important; Carpentries helped me in my career but I also know I helped other people too and that fills my heart and why I like to come back; different people will have different motivations; we can make space for those motivations too; need to think about this
* Karen: hard to convey experience you have and communicate that at scale; one of the hazards of scaling; those 1:1 relationships are more complicated and harder to have; when you create a group like this for leadership, do have that smaller group environment where you can have more relationship building and communication around things
* Zhian: one thing I've been seeing; why people volunteer and how we scale; small organisations are fun and to feel like you are able to contribute; your voice makes a huge impact and you can really steer things; this is a large ship and you can't steer it as well; one of the benefits of the leadership committee like this; what I saw when I was in a union in graduate school, on the executive committee, dealt with things that others did not want to deal with that would get gridlocked if trying to do consensus; gives people way to have something - if they are motivated by visibility; "I am leader in this community"
* Karen: I will say that I learned from this group this year about decision making; we were having this problem on the Core Team and we need a decision process; we borrowed this
* Mark: bring up interesting point; small group should feel like it is having impact; have gone from a small ship to a big ship; steering mechanism becomes work to solve; don't necessarily want to attend a meeting when that is what is being discussed; hearing about the successes that some groups have and applying it in other contexts; leadership groups talking more to other leadership groups; what is successes of us doing our roles and passing successes to each other; some of that work is offloaded to a smaller group making it easier to build consensus and make an impact; leadership is getting hands dirty with the initial motivation; Carpentries is growing into this requirement for leadership; once you have done this role 
* Sarah: exactly why we are having this discussion today; we ended up with only two people not already on Core Team, Executive Council or leadership; people want to retain being active but want to know why they cannot come to meetings; time zone and scheduling challenges were mentioned as well as ..lots of responses to that question; don't know what to do in that sense
* Yani: was looking on the list of trainers to see what people I would invite to be part of leadership; in this and other orgs. explaining this is what works; we think you can be a good person to be on this; this is the time you will need to invest; this is the skills we need; when you ask directly, at least you are going to get an answer; more work of course but this works
* Nathaniel: in terms of getting more Trainers to engage, really modeling and encouraging people to engage in multiple ways; teach together with other people that you have not trained with previously; that's what has helped me be motivated
* Annajiat: I have a question? What are the usual reasons for coming off membership? does anyone know if we were unable to provide trainers to any german institutions or could there by any other reason?
* Karen: trainers coming from membership is a new dimension that has grown in the past few years; have a growing segment of this community who are hired and told to be trainers; we have review criteria where we don't just let anyone become a trainer; for reasons coming off membership, assume you mean coming out of membership, not sure; don't work with memberships that often; have not received feedback from members that they have been dissatisfied with trainers and instructors
* Annajiat: do we plan to have a trainers satisfaction survey?
* Karen: this is a good idea; when we asked people to renew, we did ask questions re: obstacle; not everyone was asked to fill out this form; always a tradeoff in getting more information from Trainers and sending out forms; agree that it would be helpful to have data to guide this
* Mark: @Annajiat For me, I am having a lot of local pressures owing to a major change in the Library leadership: New dean, two new associate deans. So a lot of local changes, meetings and reorg eats at my time.
* Sarah: dealing with the day to day is not what Leadership has to do; usually one meeting a month ; the implementation and details is done by Core Team; 2-3 hours/month beyond being a trainer; big impact but not a huge ask

# Trainer Meeting 15 December 2022, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20221215T22)

**Attending**  



*  Mark Crowe (he/him), QCIF Australia
* Jon Wheeler (he/him), University of New Mexico
* Karen Word (she/her) The Carpentries
* Jeff Oliver (he/him), University of Arizona
* Sara King (she/her), AARNet
* Liz Stokes (she/they) ARDC Aust.
* Tim Dennis (he/him) UCLA 
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, and enable waiting room if desired

Notetaker: 


## **Agenda**:



### Introductions
### Announcements:
* self-nominations form is open for the 2023 Trainers Leadership Committee ("TLC")! [https://forms.gle/dyXnnsqTcvUs2pem9](https://forms.gle/dyXnnsqTcvUs2pem9)
* workbench version of curriculum is in pre-beta here: [https://preview.carpentries.org/instructor-training/](https://preview.carpentries.org/instructor-training/)
* please test, play, etc!
* github repo here: [https://github.com/fishtree-attempt/instructor-training](https://github.com/fishtree-attempt/instructor-training)
* any changes will be lost when beta phase begins 6 Feb
* [https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396](https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/1396)
* Recommended changes to Checkout have been approved by Trainers Leadership
* [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/226)
### Report from Trainers Leadership [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2022-10-report-to-ec.md](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/blob/main/reports/2022-10-report-to-ec.md) 
### Q&A 
* Liz: What's it been like to be part of the leadership group? WRT to time and what you get out of it? Do you feel like you are in touch with the broader trainer community or do you feel like a stopgap
* Mark: regarding time commitment: it's been manageable. 1 or 2 formal meetings per week (which have been at 6AM, so not interfering with workday)
* Jeff: MONTH, Mark, MONTH.
* [zhian missed this followup question from liz regarding diversity]
* Jeff: responsibility of decision making is shifted from core team and community to TLC. It's a really good experience showing how to solve problems collaboratively with representation. We've done a pretty good job representing diversity geographically and in terms of opinion because we don't always agree on things. It's been cool to see the evolution of this where we have made it easier on the future trainers leadership committee. What's the hard part? it's a global organisation and in synchronous meeting: it's always midnight somewhere. What has worked really well is that we have good mechanisms for doing asynch work. It's taking a bit of getting used to, but I think we've done a pretty good job with that. 
* Jeff: if anyone else has not served on TLC, I would be happy to voluntell them :)
* Jon: What are the priorities going forward in the next two years? Of them, what are the most challenging in consensus building and are there rules (e.g Martha's around that).
* Mark: yes, we use Marthas. Challenges: :grimacing: challenge for the first half of next year is the new checkout activities. Engagement and communication is a challenge. We typically have 20% of the community meeting in this forum. It's hard to tell how often people are reading emails and slacks. Was pleasantly surprised about how many people responded to the community survey. But one of the biggest issues is that it's very difficult to know if people we are talking to are capturing the full range of opinions and views. 
* Karen: [incoming challenge] We've made tremendous strides in creating a certificate renewal process that is less exclusionary, but there are still pain points and there is still work to be done in smoothing out that process. It's a very delicate process. It was really great to see the committee come together and make it work; there are still a lot of different philosophies at play and I would like to see more automation next year, which will dig into a lot of the messaging and the whys and hows. The rollout of the recommendations is still challenging.
* Mark: The great thing about the challenges Karen brings is that they are defined as opposed to communication. We've engaged more with the core team to help them understand what it's like to run workshops from the trainer perspective. The point of the TLC is to take responsibility away from the trainers. It's one of those things where it's working well and you don't notice.
* Karen: I think the committee in the early stages was very anxious to hear from the community on everything and asked things in the right way to get answers and it was really important and really empowering. If people feel like they are uncomfortable with how they are being represented, they can become part of this committee. 
* Tim: It seems like part of it was that the governance group makes decisions on policy, but RE UX for trainers: is that going to be a focus of this group over time?
* Karen: Your point about there being a broader body of UX data and information and theory is something that the Core team is trying to get better at right now and there are a whole bunch of subdisciplines that we are delving into. Next year, I hope that we can see more of a connection between subcommunities so that there won't be so much of a burden on leadership to figure out the mechanisms.
* Jeff: It's one of these things where part of the issue is that things have changed in the past few years _somewhat_ drastically. TL has been asking the questions about the things that just have to be dealt with in the moment. Jeff lost is train of thought thinking about burning Mark
* Mark: medium term project: documentation for the trainer handbook. Rather than it being acquired knowledge, we hope to capture some of this. 
* Mark: I will answer one of Karen's other questions and won't sugarcoat this. One of the things that has struck me is that the committee has taken a lot longer than I was imagining when I joined up. The Carpentries is very inclusive, but that comes at a cost of extensive review before things are implemented. 
* Jeff: I know that feeling, but it was a good experience working in that style and there are times when it's not good to move fast and break things. 
* Karen: The core team does a lot of work to bring questions in a way that are digestible so that the TLC can focus on making the right decision.
