## Trainer meeting, 1 September 2022  UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220901T14](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220901T14) 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

* Sarah Stevens (she/her/hers), University of Wisconsin-Madison - pre

**Others attending**



* Kari L. Jordan
* Kelly Barnes, she/her, The Carpentries 
* Jake Szamosi, McMaster University
* Philipp Schäfer, FSU Jena, he/him
* Konrad Förstner, ZB MED, he/him
* Mike Trizna, Smithsonian, he/him  
* Jannetta Steyn, she/her, Newcastle University, UK
* Pao Corrales, she/her 
* Margareth Gfrerer, Addis Ababa
* Maneesha Sane  
* Danielle Sieh, she/her, The Carpentries
* Zhian N. Kamvar (he/him), The Carpentries
* Karen Word, The Carpentries she/her
* Kristin Lee, she/her, Tufts, Boston
* Hao Ye (he/him), University of Florida
* Luis J. Villanueva, Smithsonian
* Mark Laufersweiler (he/him), Univ of Oklahoma Libraries
* Toby Hodges (he/him/his), The Carpentries
* Rabea Müller, (she/her), ZB MED

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

**Notetaker:**Zhian

**Agenda**:



### Introductions
### Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Sarah: in the 4 years I've been a trainer, I've never gone this long without doing a training (since January). If anyone has any advice for what changed in the last nine months?
* Jake: Look over the DEI and Code of Conduct stuff because that has changed in the last few months.
* Mark: if you are not familiar with the UDL section, take some extra time and do some homework on that and if you are lucky enough, get the other instructor to teach that. 
* Kelly: do you plan on teaching differently?
* Sarah: I plan on taking some more time with this and I blocked out some time on my calendar for that. Jake: OMG!
* Janetta: Philipp and I taught recently, but I can't compare it with the old one. It was really long and you have to decide beforehand what bits you want to leave out. People got really tired and there was a lot of feedback about that. Is it online or in person? A lot of breaks would help. 
* Karen: if you have any retrsospective thoughts on where you would have cut or should have cut, that would be helpful to know
* Jake: I always cut the "how to make a website part"
* Sarah: I make that section a followup section; embarassingly, I always truncate the "preparing to teach" section. I take time with checkout process, though. 
* Karen (from chat): We have a note in that setion now that says it is often cut!
* Janetta: We also offer sessions afterwards to go through how to set up a workshop so that they could get comfortable.
* Kelly: any more ideas of what you decide or how you decide to cut? Does it happen in advance or on the fly?
* Conrad: typically on the fly
* Jake: on the fly 
* [Zhian missed this part, there were a lot of things coming in verbally and the chat]
* Mike said that he felt it was useful to be open and point out to instructor trainees where sections were being shortened or skipped -- and why. This is a huge skill for acting as Carpentries Instructor.
* Mark: I found that it was easier with the four days so that we could gague stuff that was missed and front-load the next day. What we have started doing is to talk to the other instructors based on their experiences and flag where we might be cutting. Four day is a lot easier to compensate there. 
* Kelly: I wonder if we should keep a record of where we cut so that when we make updates to the curriculum when this happens?
* Jake: hypothesis.is!
* Kari: as you are deciding what info you want to cut, make sure you give the tools that they need to teach workshops and go through checkout. 
* [Zhian dropped off notes here again]
* Kelly: we are going to have a meeting for this mid-september to figure out what is important for checkout. 
* Sarah: has it gotten any better over time? Have people been completing the requirements at a better rate over time?
* Kelly: it ranges between 40-60%
* Karen: there are a lot of confounding factors due to the pandemic. 
* Rabea: I have heard from the region that the institutes do some kind of instructor mentoring and talk to the participants before, during and after the training and support them in the checkout process. I think that motivates everyone not to drop out. To know that you are not alone
* Maneesha: if people are curious about having data broken out in different ways please reach out to me and I'll see what we can do
* Pao: Do you have a survey or something similar I can pass on to the Spanish-speakers instructors that participated in the "checkout days" we usually do? might be interesting to compare that experience
* Kelly: [Zhian missed this again because he got sent down the well into the depths of the etherpad for some reason]
* Mark: I mentioned that we did a 1 day workshop last time and all of the instructors said that they would do the workshop again next year. 
### Announcements
* Instructor badges will be changing Oct 3: single Carpentries Instructor badge vs. DC, LC, SWC badges. 
* But there was another badge made... One badge to rule them all, one badge to bind them.
* The three badges are functionally identical and get in the way of our admin processes because we have to do 3x as many queries and also confuse things in terms of our identity as carpentries instructors.
* All new instructors will get the one badge on Oct 3.
* All former instructors will get a new certificate with the original badge date.
* Pao: are we going to need to inform which lesson instructors are doing the demo? 
* Maneesha: we are still going to do the demo the same way
* Karen: because we are using this as an in-depth process, we are hoping to record the next meeting so that we can get feedback.
* Kelly: there will be other opportunities for feedback. 
* Jake: I thought the badges were merged in 2018
* Kelly: they are functionally the same! It's just a thing with our data processing because there actually are different badges based on the checkout demo that you did. 
* 15/16 September meeting: [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/211](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/211)
* Look for more detail on these in your inbox soon!
* Quarterly schedule is almost complete - everyone scheduled has received confirmation and we will confirm soon with those not scheduled.


## Trainer Meeting 1 September 2022, UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time: [https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220901T22](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220901T22)

**Training discussion (pre and post):**



* post - Liz Stokes, ARDC, Sydney Australia, & Ann Backhaus, Pawsey, Western Australia
* Sarah Brown, University of Rhode Island (post)

**Others attending**



* Jon Wheeler, University of New Mexico, he/him
* Jeff Oliver, University of Arizona, he/him
* Karen Word, The Carpentries, she/her
* Zhian N. Kamvar he/him
* Zac Painter, Stanford University
* Sara King, AARNet, she/her
* Masami Yamaguchi, Sydney Australia she/her
* Tim Dennis, UCLA, he/him 
* Mark Crowe, QCIF Brisbane Australia, he/him

Reminder to host: claim 'host' role in Zoom room, turn on captioning, and enable waiting room

Notetaker: 

**Agenda**:



### Introductions (name, location, somthing you are looking forward to in September)
### Pre and post Instructor Training discussion
* Liz: ran in the last week of August (23 participants). Biggest thing learned: feedback from participants, I feel outside the academy on this. The curriculum is geared towards reserachers in a lab. Their reserach was outside a traditional science lab, so they felt a bit excluded. The live coding component made them feel quite fragile as a learner. This was related to an opportunity to get some peple from a particular project from the IDC and before the workshop ran, it was really great, people had a lot of questions, but it didn't pan out as well.
* Liz: how do we approach people outside the academy and how does that work?
* Ann: Second everything Liz said. I would add; this group more than previous seemed to want a lot more about the checkout process and the detail of it. Even though we tried to embed more of the live coding and picking out what episode they wanted to do, that seemed to be more daunting for that. Liz is going to run a community discussion to help them out with that. The first day is theory and content heavy and we were tryng to think about how to break that up so that we could blend it across the first two days. It was really good that we had taught this not too long ago, so the content was in our heads and just needed a bit of a refresher. I spent a lot of time thinking about the activities and material and the engagement with each other. 
* Liz: each time I do this kind of training, I really enjoy teaching with Ann. We always learn something new. One thing that really stands out is the limnal space between breakouts, bonding between imposter syndrome. I learn a couple of things about wearing a couple of hats at the same time (coordinator and trainer). Overenrolling was something that worked well because we have a full class. I contacted everyone not in the OZ time zone to check in and make sure they were still up for it. It helped clarify who actually wanted to do the training from 10PM to 2AM and who made a horrible mistake. 
* Liz: We have set up a themed community discussion as git for new instructors. First hour: introduction and second hour: hands on.
* Liz: spread of expertise was really broad as well as status (student, researcher, librarian).
* Karen: Are we talking about people who have coding skills outside of academia or people who do not have cding skills that were not expecting to need the coding skills they were expected to have. 
* Liz: the latter. They were interested in those skills. Not proposing to change curriculum, but this seems like an opportunity for a pre-session on "why would you want to start learning to code in your statistical and data analysis?" This would more easily be shared in a variety of situations (non profit, community education).
* Karen: this has been on our radar for a bit. We are thinking a more generally applicable rout next year for folks who do not want to teach coding. We are also thinking about how to communicate when we are recruiting people to take instructor training. We are seeing more and more of these folks in our communities and we want to make sure that they have the support they need. 
* Mark: When we do trainer courses, you can sign up without being an instructor, provided that you sign up for an instructor training course in parallel. This could be a similar model for instructor training where we ask people to take SWC, LC, or DC courses. 
* Karen: definitely tough because we dont want to draw lines and exclude people, but we do have a purpose. It would be practically difficult to require a concurrent workshop, but it's valuable.
* Sara K: I didn't know how to code when I joined and I checked out with openRefine, but this might be a way we could navigate people to this. I still don't know how to code and I'm still here :)
* Karen: what we could do is to be much more explicit about pointing people to the openrefine lesson.
* Liz: We demonstrated live coding in the terminal and demonstrated a couple of commands because we thought it might help them feel better because I don't have that much experience in the terminal. Unfortunately, I did not come across as a beginner to them. There was an error that popped up that was not clear and put it back to the class and they thought it was a put on.
* Jeff: I agree with all these comments, and I think we are victims of our own success: the pedagogical best practices covered in IT curriculum are sooooooo accessible to a broad audience. Every professor I ever had (and I took no coding classes) would have benefitted from participating in CIT.
* Mark: Very valid point Jeff. Does the Carpentries need to focus back on its core area of coding/data analysis (including OpenRefine!), or are we comfortable transitioning into a general training/instructor skills organisation
* Ann: I have experience and I got into live coding when I was doing IT and I froze and I delayed my checkout by a year because I was giving myself a refresher in UNIX. It really hits your self esteem
* Sarah M Brown: End of July RI sloan training. We had a very small group. The grant specified that it served BIPOC members in a very specific time zone. There was an eventbrite error that confused folks as well. When we are trying to bring new communities in: one of the trainees joined at the beginning and asked how much instructors get paid or what are the benefits. When we explained that, they jumped off the call and never came back. Our recruitment material assumes people know who The Carpentries are. Do we really need to bring them into IT right away or could we run workshops and introduce that way? Because it was very small, it was a big contrast to my last training (19 down to 5). We got a lot of feedback from the learners, but none of them had ever taken a Carpentries Workshop, so things like choosing a lesson to practice with involved some walkthrough. We tried something new: when we ask them to analyze something in a lesson, we instructed them to go to the third episode and the first exercise on that page. This worked amazingly well. Because of the audience we were teaching, I thought a lot about how to set up the EIA episode. Based on that I've come up with a PR so that it could land better. Based on who I was talking to, it seemed like it was NA based on the way it was framed. What I came up with is to reshape the narrative of the infrastructure empowering the instructors to bring that kind of inclusivity. We got positive feedback and discussions and got to know the trainees.
* Karen: that particular grant has been a bit of a battle. The lesson we learned overall is that previously growth has occured in a very organic way (word of mouth). Trying to grow in communities where we do not have champions is really really hard. Coming up with recruitment material to hit people cold is difficult. We don't have relationships, trust, or reputation of any kind. What we are taking from this is that we don't have great deliverables, but we have the takeaway that we are needing to focus harder on that recruitment.
* Sara: One of the people was looking for whether or not there is a community at her institution or nearby institutions to help build a local community.
* Liz: At a teaching demo yesterday our ice breaker we asked about telling us about people they wanted us to teach. This was an interesting way of getting information about the learners' motivation, and who they were planning to teach. 'Serendipitously' I found out about diversity programs and discreet training programs for specific disciplines this way.
* Karen suggests to harrass Alycia about moar work that she could do.
### Announcements
* Instructor badges will be changing Oct 3: single Carpentries Instructor badge vs. DC, LC, SWC badges. 
* But there was another badge made... One badge to rule them all, one badge to bind them.
* The three badges are functionally identical and get in the way of our admin processes because we have to do 3x as many queries and also confuse things in terms of our identity as carpentries instructors.
* All new instructors will get the one badge on Oct 3.
* All former instructors will get a new certificate with the original badge date.
* Pao: are we going to need to inform which lesson instructors are doing the demo? 
* Maneesha: we are still going to do the demo the same way
* Karen: because we are using this as an in-depth process, we are hoping to record the next meeting so that we can get feedback.
* Kelly: there will be other opportunities for feedback. 
* Jake: I thought the badges were merged in 2018
* Kelly: they are functionally the same! It's just a thing with our data processing because there actually are different badges based on the checkout demo that you did. 
* 15/16 September meeting: [https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/211](https://github.com/carpentries/trainers/issues/211)
* Look for more detail on these in your inbox soon!
* Quarterly schedule is almost complete - everyone scheduled has received confirmation and we will confirm soon with those not scheduled.
