# Trainer meeting

## Meeting 1

May 2, 2019 UTC 14:00 (Christina)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190502T14

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

* Kari L. Jordan: https://kariljordan.github.io/2019-05-06-ttt-csvconf/
* Christina Koch
* Sarah Stevens
* Greg Wilson

**Others attending:**

* Jeff Oliver
* Maneesha Sane 
* Chris PU Njoku
* Sher!
* Mark Laufersweiler

### Discussion

Kari 

* is teaching at csv,conf with Tracy (finally! :))
* training is catered towards those in libraries / library sciences. 
* How to personalize the curriculum for this group?
    * instruction is already built into library jobs, but they may not know some of the pedagogy
    * often feel they have to be experts and are not familiar with technology; may feel inferior to the people they're teaching
    * tend to stay with their comfort level, single development/teaching, may not be used to collaborative teaching
    * follow up question: which lessons to use for practice?
    - provide guidance, maybe emphasize the library carpentry lessson
* How to introduce Carpentries to people who have no experience with the Carpentries / keep them motivated
    * https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/882  Does the name Carpentries sync well in every environ?  Is there advice on how to proceed with introduction and bring in the name last, especially if marketing the community and lessons?

Christina/Sarah

- mixed feelings about the length of the teaching demos
- challenge to teach concept maps (again)
    - should we keep them? --> useful to illustrate the number of concepts actually involved in "one concept", do take a lot of time, not clear how to apply to teaching
    - how do we present them?
    - place to use simple maps: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/505 // https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/622
    - making a bed concept map: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kr6vq9IDPun3YSJKj_zUi-kyeqIDPX7Z_BqI5XzZvMI/edit#slide=id.p


Greg

* Rstudio instructor training (2 half-days, online)
* Works well - will share slides
* Get to see videos of Lex teaching poorly/well at the end of day 1, prep overnight for day 2 -- worked well to split up those


###Announcements:

* Teaching demo hosts needed! This is a busy time of year. If you haven't run one in a while, please sign up: https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered
    * If you can't make any of the available times, can schedule your own. Maneesha or Karen will share info on how to do this.
* Mentoring groups are open! Please encourage new instructors to sign up https://goo.gl/forms/0Tiz8m1E2H5nlLus2 . Trainers interested in leading a mentoring group can sign up here https://goo.gl/forms/xKYytXTbI1PUo56C2 . For more about mentoring:  https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/mentoring/mentoring-groups.html 
* Lesson release in June! We will try to keep everyone in the loop about this. 
    
### Topic of the Month: Pre-release curriculum cleanup & longer term project goals

General Comments

* Provide more information on teaching demo rubric
* Where to introduce regional communities (local email lists, regional coordinators, etc.)
    * How we Operate -- introduce the staff, communities, etc. 
* Clarify workshop process / lesson use

Sign up for issues

* https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues

Code of Conduct discussion -- adding the point-of-contact role

* Where should it go?
    * Include in the introductions section on day 2; one more 5-minute hands-on
* What is our timeline?
* Take into account local responsibilities, 

## Meeting 2

May 2, 2019 UTC 22:00 (Karen)

See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190502T22 

**Training discussion (pre and post):**

* Karen Word
* Rayna Harris
 

**Others attending:**

* Sarah Brown - data in society Brown University

### Discussion
    
Karen - online course. 
* learners who were using the zoom browser couldn't join or be invited to the breakouts. could be just a few tweets and emphasize the technical differences. valuable to teach from both perspectives of in person and online.
    * PRs for zoom issues. see also https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues/807
    * also need to improve communicating zoom etiquette. 

### Announcements:

Teaching demo hosts needed! This is a busy time of year. If you haven't run one in a while, please sign up: https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos-recovered
Mentoring groups are open! Please encourage new instructors to sign up https://goo.gl/forms/0Tiz8m1E2H5nlLus2 . Trainers interested in leading a mentoring group can sign up here https://goo.gl/forms/xKYytXTbI1PUo56C2 . For more about mentoring:  https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/mentoring/mentoring-groups.html 
    
### Topic of the Month: Pre-release curriculum cleanup & longer term project goals

https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/issues


Code of Conduct discussion -- adding the point-of-contact role

* Is there a phase I "just change the information" to keep current with our documentation, while we work on bigger changes?
* Where should it go?
    * Include in the introductions section on day 2; one more 5-minute hands-on
    * could weave throughout to reflect pervasive influence. CoC callouts? 
        * Introductions (practice summarizing CoC) https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/23-introductions/index.html could be elabborate
        * How we Operate (not currently there at all) https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/21-carpentries/index.html
        * Managing a Diverse Classroom (practice enforcing CoC) https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/18-management/index.html
        * Motivation & Demotivation (as an example of violation) https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/08-motivation/index.html
* What is our timeline?
    * 3 months?
    * Create content, make room for content
* Who should be involved?
    * CoC committee guidance? <- Ask for editing. Ways in which we misunderstand can inform CoC committee. Also airs potential misconceptions that our learners will encounter. Opportunity to really work out the kinks & get clarity
    * Create a task force of trainers to work on it?
* Take into account local responsibilities, 


Github project https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-training/projects/1

