# Trainer meeting

##  Meeting 1

April 4, 2019 UTC 14:00 

See this link for your local time: See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190404T14

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

* Katrin Tirok (post)
* Elizabeth Williams (post)
* Mike Henry (pre)
* Saymore Chifamba (post

**Others attending**

* Laura Acion  
* Ana Costa Conrado
* Alexander Konovalov
* Chris PU Njoku
* Christina Koch
* Sarah Stevens
* Karen Word (a little late :)
* Gerg Wislon
* Vanessa Gonzalez
* Maneesha Sane
* Toby Hodges 

Welcome new Trainers! Laura volunteers for notes, but accepting help because of an unstable connnection

### Discussion

Katrin and Saymore: 

* in person training in South Africa, four trainers, together with Saymore and others
* 30 participants, a nice mix. 
* It went well, well motivated crowd and communicative. It was great. 
* Icebreakers so everyone got to know each other. 
* Challenges: 
  * time management difficult at times specially for how much communicative the group was. Use of breakout rooms would have helped but this was an in person workshop.Great.  Can try dividing participants into small groups to discuss  and come togther again thereafter (just as in Zoom breakout).
* Highlights
  * freedom participants had to discuss, discussions during tea breaks and lunch
* On the third day, did an afternoon session on how to actually run a workshop; had them break out into groups and look at the checklists and make a plan for putting on a workshop (thinking about venues, where to get funding), etc. 

* Question from Maneesha: trainings for longer than 2 days - in other places, 2 days is a long time to give up - how did the group manage to have that much time?
  * Katrin had this time reserved because of previous work with Anelda. The learners were mostly students and professors. Most managed well and agreed before hand to be at the workshop full time, but some people had to interrupt their participation at times, mostly due to reschedule of their duties shortly afteer the start of the workshop. Saymore gathered that since the learners were students and profs the interactions with communities is part of their job. Saymore is in industry, though.
* Question from Christina: how was this group selected?
  * Specific disciplines or career stages were not targeted. There were 40 people wanting to attend but 10 did not attend, so space was not an issue. Some of them had already contact with the carpentries. It was also advertised to previous learners. Katrin sent emails to bigger communities. Also in other TC workshops in South Africa the instructors workshops are promoted and the info of interested parties is collected for future advertisement. In a nutshell, it was advertised to people that expressed interest before and the 30 seats were completely filled that way.

Mike

The training is not until July. Wondering about some general advice for online training - one thing you wish you knew before your first instructor's workshop. Great question! I want that advice too, Mike. Laura.

* Toby: accept that you won't be able to cover everything in the material in the time available; Online: if you have time to observe a training run by some experienced trainers, get in touch with them to organise one of those.
* Greg: there is no such thing as "too much coffee" or "too many donuts" (My dentist strongly disagrees with this statement, Greg) (Your dentist clearly doesn't travel across multiple timezones to do training)
* Greg: also, you can never practice too much with Zoom - I fumbled the breakout rooms the first time and the second - not hard, just a bit fiddly
* Sarah: That it would be fun!  I was so nervous prior I did think this would be true. The best part (for me) is hearing from the learners in the room. 
* Karen: I would have been more relaxed if I'd known how much people generallly like this training under all circumstances (even ones I've considered rather marginal)
* AlexK: for online training, have someone (co-instructor or helper) to monitor chats in Etherpad and/or Zoom. When you teach, you don't see questions appearing there easily.
* AlexK: consider using Etherpad vs GoogleDocs in advance. Each of the tools has its pro and contra.
* Maneesha: You and your co-trainer are there to work together and support each other -- you are not alone! Also, make good use of breaks - use them for a short exercise, or just give a break entirely for people to take a breather.
* Greg: cough drops +1
* Christina: echo Toby's comment about time -- figure out in advance what is most important (in your eyes) and what could be dropped. 
* Christina: for online trainings specifically (I got this from Greg, actually), have a plaintext list of names that you can paste into the etherpad. Reduces confusion when a bunch of people need to answer something at once, and subtly makes it clear that everyone needs to respond.

Thanks guys! These are all great bits of advice :) +1

If the same question gets asked in the later meeting, I will add those to the PR as well

### Announcements( & quick questions)

* April 22-23 training on US Pacific time needs a Trainer -- contact Maneesha if interested, even for part
* Duplicate information on Handbook vs. Instructor Notes pages: where should these be hosted?
	* This documentation appears here https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/guide/index.html
	and here https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/trainers_guide.html#trainer-checklists.
	* GH Issue here: https://github.com/carpentries/handbook/issues/361
	* Toby: information for during the training, things that are relevant while u r teaching should be in the instructors notes. In the handbook we should link to the instructors notes.If you have any other suggestions, communicate with Karen.
	* Also, if you have instructor's tricks add them to the instructors notes
	* Laura: it would be great to add the advice for Mike above to the Instructor Notes (PR welcome! Mike has volunteered to take this on.)
* Teaching demo instructions overhaul: thoughts on where to start? Trainers or Maintainers?
	* Mike: maintainers will know which parts make the most sense for demos
	* Christina: do you as the trainer have to know something about the lesson to take it out? the answer is no, but curious about people's comfort level is with that. For example, if you are not familiar with python, perhaps you are not comfy checking on python lessons. 
		* Greg: checked R demos long before knowing the language. The demos are about presentation - timing, voice, ways, etc. Also following an established lesson and not one of their own. 
		* Maneesha:likewise Greg, not judging people on the content but on teaching practices. The content is almost secondary. The lessons I don't know allow me to be in a novice standpoint and that is better for evaluating the demo. The demo trainer does not need to be familiar with the content. 
		* Chris: seems nothing needs to be reviewed before turning over to maintainers. 
	* Ana: how do you manage to tell demonstrators that they don't get to chose their episode. 
		* Try to head people off as soon as possible, explain that they need to prepare a whole lesson and the trainer will provide which episode at the time of the demo. 
		* Be clear in explanation (at the training) and at the beginning of the demo (if you haven't prepared a whole lesson, consider rescheduling)
* Trainer leave status -- thanks for your responses! On hold for now, but get in touch if you need to step back in the mean time. Karen welcomes contact about people's needs for leave status in the meantime.
* We *will* have our "extra" trainer meeting this month (April 18) to discuss some topics related to the Code of Conduct.will the 


### Topic of the Month: requesting 'a-la-carte' Instructor Training events outside of an institutional membership agreement

https://goo.gl/forms/6U4kV3scqv054EWn1 -> the form is just shared among trainers, not posted in website, not for general distribution (at least not yet) <- it is not often more broadly advertised because having membership of institutions is vital for the sustainability of The Carpentries.

"Free" events require a scholarship so it is clear that it is not for free. Also, events outside of membership creates logistical problems at the time of checkout. That is why we are putting together this form to gather information and getting this process in order, in the books of The Carpentries.

Trainers are always welcome to train whomever they want, but if you want instructors to go through TC checkout, the formal process has to go through a more formal process and this form serves that purpose.

Comments: 

* mike: might want to make the "Please check here to indicate that you are aware of the potential cost of Trainer expenses in addition to fees for an in-person event." required  same for "Trainees from a single site may sign up for the same event, that event will most likely be shared with others around the world. Please check here to indicate that you are aware of this."
* laura: being in a country without institutions in the official membership list this is awesome :-)
* Toby: can you control which pages are shown based on answer to [in-person|online|both] question on page 1? Does GForms provide page logic options? yes
* Mike: Small note about how long/how much time it takes to fill out the form?
* Ana: what are the fees?
* Alexander: looks good - basically, I read this as if we have funding and want to have training to get more instructors in our network, we may apply for organising this
* Toby (organizing carpentry connect in UK): what is the wait time for open instructor training? that is attending a training event. Karen: about a month and they can fill in another form and they are usually welcome because they can be great champions. Feel free to contact Karen about this.


## Meeting 2

Trainer Meeting April 4, 2019 UTC 22:00

See this link for your local time:  See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20190404T22 

**Training discussion signup (pre and post)**

* Karen Word (post)
* Elizabeth Williams (post)
* Kate Hertweck (pre and post)
* Mark Laufersweiler (post)

**Others attending**

* Kari L. Jordan
* Rayna Harris
* Sarah Brown 
* Brian Ballsun-Stanton
* Masami Yamaguchi
* Murray Cadzow

### Introductions! 

From new Trainers and everyone else too :)

### Discussion


Post: Feedback from Kate (Kate, Jeff Oliver and Brian)

* submitted new PR in lesson and handbook regarding zoom breakout sessions
* great connections 
* timing was difficult with west coast + australia participants
* found that "massaging" the text in the etherpad template 
* etherpad crash early in the afternoon, moved to google docs

Pre: Kate and Ariel. 

* will be in person
* what do people look at when teaching in person, when not looking at zoom? 
	* can keep the etherpad up on the screen or show images
	* +1, also working on having links to images in the etherpad template
	* some people use slide templates
	* Rayna wrote a blog post with a short section regarding what to put on the screen at in person and online https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2016/10/instructrortraining.html
	* regarding etherpad population, Rayna suggests that the co-instructor manages the etherpad, adding questions and such

Elizabeth and Karen, in person in UC Davis

* learned that is important to practice teaching by speaking out loud as opposed to just reading
* power outage reguired changing rooms
* familiarity with the curriculum is important for knowing where time can be saved and how to field questions 
* gave more time and depth to code of conduct. found that instructors feel anxious about dealing with the CoC in the classroom, feel like they don't have enough training
	* Note: we will use the place holder meeting in two weeks to discuss the CoC
* Also -- the tweet of the week!  https://twitter.com/dcsoto_cl/status/1111447971550228480

Mark and Jason in March online

* struggling with getting over imposter syndrome with respect to teaching new instructors. learn something every time
* lots of people turned their cameras off. can't tell if people are engaged or not - is there a way to encourage but not necesarrily enforce this?
* got a sticky note asking why are we still addressing attire in the CoC and in instructor training
* used a ping-pong taktic, switching back and forth between teaching within each lesson. everyone is there for the full day

### Announcements( & quick questions)

* April 22-23 training on US Pacific time needs a Trainer -- contact Maneesha if interested, even for part
	* is this online??? yes
* Duplicate information on Handbook vs. Instructor Notes pages: where should these be hosted?
	* still some duplication even thought much of the notes were ported over to the handbook
	* keep only curriculum related tips in the lesson, move all preparation to the handbook
* Teaching demo instructions overhaul: thoughts on where to start? Trainers or Maintainers?
	* some confusion over what to teach or not (e.g what is core? what is beta? what doesn't have live coding)
	* perhaps reach out to the maintainers to ask what are good starting points. 
		* reaching out to maintainers could work for SWC but not LC
		* LC beta lessons are off-limits
		* some maintainers might not have the right perspective to say more than what is stable or not vs what is a good starting point 
	* lots of lessons have dependencies, which makes it hard
	* could we just provide 1-3 episodes for each lesson? this could be great for the trainers. would it work for learners? 
	* Note: we will return to this at a later date. Karen will reach out to maintainers and trainers for clarity regarding demo start points
* Trainer leave status 
	* Thanks for your responses! 
	* On hold for now, but get in touch if you need to step back in the meantime.
		* interesting caveat -- if your organizations contract requires that someone offer training, taking a leave might violate that contract

### Topic of the Month: requesting 'a-la-carte' Instructor Training events outside of an institutional membership agreement

https://goo.gl/forms/6U4kV3scqv054EWn1 

This information is not be shared widely, it is simply for enthusiastic trainers who want to host their own workshops -> this is critical for sustainability of the Carpentries

what kind of situations would this cover?
* anything not covered by membership
* when a 15 seat allotment can't be filled because it doesn't work with people's schedules, would be nice to have say 5 people at 3 different workshops. this "tickets" metaphor has worked for OU and OSU and could also work for Sydney as a way to grow regional communities
* note that we have different agreements that provide online and inperson training
* primary purpose is to schedule in-person events at a conference or in regions where we are interested in growing or maybe just where they is an enthusiastic group that is trying to get trained
* Note: when people organize their own events without reporting this to staff, it can cause major challenges in workflow and financial reporting
* Karen and Elizabeth will work together to review form submissions
* lots of logicistical and societal challenges +1 (to the potential stratification of badged/unbadged issue) associated with offering self organized training. 
* Maybe the form isn't perfect but it does seem like a good starting point for getting the conversation started for people to organize events so that staff and community members know that things are happening and the resources can be matched in a way that is beneficial for everyone. Encouraging openness is good. 

Thanks for all your thoughtful thoughts and comments

See you in two weeks for a CoC disucssion at the placeholder meeting